

===== Session 01 - 1946 =====
When I had the honour of addressing the General Assembly at the first part of its first session in London, I had occasion to express certain ideas illustrating the Peruvian delegation’s point of view on the international situation at that moment. I am going to do so again today and, through force of circumstances, I must revert to the same subjects.
I said then that, within the Organization of the United Nations, it was of fundamental importance that, on the one hand, the great Powers should realize that any abuse of their rights and privileges would lead to international dictatorship, and that, on the other hand, the small nations should be alive to the fact that any excessive ambition would lead to international anarchy. I added that the avoidance of an international dictatorship, which is the guarantee of the survival of an international democracy, requires that these two groups should keep within their reasonable limits. If either of them should overstep those limits, by an abuse of the rights derived from new treaties or by giving too free a rein to that ambition which is latent in individuals and nations alike, neither group could fulfill its historic task.
From London to New York, international relations have followed a short but eventful path. The great Powers, or some of them, have marked their supremacy in world questions in a manner that surely is derived from an excessive interpretation of the facts and from excessive sensitiveness placed at the service of excessive ambition.
Thus, the danger of disproportionate claims which might have logically been expected on the part of the small States, whose international positions had been collectively and individually impaired, proved to be, in reality, a further manifestation of the supremacy of the great Powers, and has increased the privileges which they derived from victory as well as from the rights conferred on them by the Charter of the United Nations.
Thus, too, the lack of international harmony has been expressed in the opposition or contrast of the interests of the great States. The differences created by the new Organization, which were principally of a juridical type, are now being extended to the point that they threaten to create a spiritual abyss. Thus, finally, the right of the veto, which the small States accepted as an inevitable consequence of the antecedents of the new international status, appears not to be limited — either in reality or in intention — to the problems capable of affecting the security of the great States, but rather to be extended to other questions, where, from an objective point of view, it is quite unjustified.
More than this, the small States would have reason to think that the international inequality established by the San Francisco Charter — there is no point in using euphemisms — is not limited to the inevitable manifestations of superiority of power and greater importance of interests, but that all the expressions of equality, in so far as they are not purely the declaratory formulae of international protocol, are foundering completely as a result of the absorption by the major Nations of all international direction and of their desire to play a preponderant role in international life.
This undermining of international equality finds expression in an attitude which is all the more dangerous because it is assumed without immediate reasons of contiguity or common interests, but rather for political and social reasons of an ideological or doctrinaire type.
Today, all the major international issues under consideration or review which have arisen as a result of the recent great war, are not submitted or discussed or settled on grounds of strict justice, nor in the form best calculated to ensure future peace, nor even by taking primarily into consideration human rights, whose assertion was the fundamental cause of the struggle against the defeated nations and the decisive impulse towards victory.
Solutions of these important international questions are governed by two basic but morally weak considerations. In the first place, the interests of the great States are judged exclusively by themselves in pursuance of a policy of domination. In the second place, questions are settled in the light of ideologies which, with different form and content, again oppose each other in history, in the same way that the spirit of the French Revolution opposed the spirit of the Holy Alliance in the first half of the nineteenth century, and the spirit of domination of peoples and subjugation of individuals is opposed by the spirit of international democracy and the affirmation of human rights in this first half of the twentieth century.
We must not forget that there are many small States which, either under the Versailles Treaty or the San Francisco Charter, provisionally surrendered their strong and invincible desire for international equality, because they believed that this equality was not possible without an organized juridical order which would constitute an effective partnership, for the establishment of which it was necessary to accept, owing to existing circumstances, the supremacy of power; but they accepted it believing that it was only temporary, until such time as international justice was able, increasingly, to assume the functions which meanwhile were entrusted to a power under the guarantee that they would be used solely in upholding the law.
We must understand the opposition to the veto, which is now becoming general, as an act of urgent rebellion and also as a reaction which grows in, proportion as the veto is being more widely abused.
If the veto continues, or is liable, to be exercised in an extensive way and in a manner contrary to its only acceptable basis, which is a genuine and prudent conception of security, a new generation of statesmen, politicians and jurists, and what is even more serious, a new generation of human beings will have failed not only to realize the splendid Wilsonian ideal of making the world safe for democracy, but also in the ideal of Franklin Roosevelt that men should be able to live without fear.
We should then only be replacing the extinct Versailles Covenant, which, juridically allowed action against the disturber of international peace, by a Charter that would permit the veto and a sort of medieval jurisdiction under which the great nations would be beyond the reach of justice. And this same justice, represented principally by the International Court, would not have made, as indeed it has not made, any positive step towards asserting its authority with respect to the category or type of disputes with which it should deal, and towards the exercise of this authority over all the members of the family of nations.
Two essential conditions, among many others, must be fulfilled if the United Nations Organization is to grow in scope and strength until it becomes the comprehensive and all-embracing framework of the international community. One of them is the effort — which may be slow, but must be effective — towards the universality of the Organization. This requires that it should become more and more an association of all peoples, through their representative elements which are their Governments; and less and less an instrument for perpetuating the political and material advantages derived from victory.
Peru believes that all States must gradually come to form part of the United Nations, provided that their political system is not opposed to the new fundamental principles of the international community. In the first place, of course, there are all those that were not belligerents but whose neutrality was, in many cases, a contribution to victory and a valuable asset in circumstances which might have turned out differently if, at the critical moment, these States had yielded to the mirage of an anti-democratic victory or to the threatening pressure of force.
Another condition necessary for the development and strengthening of the United Nations is that no international agreements creating a new legal status should be concluded outside the Organization.
There is no longer security for the future of peace and civilization — regarded from the point of view of the intellectual and material progress of mankind — in agreements or treaties which, under the exclusive influence of great Power interests, create for the defeated nations — which no longer exist as governments but which are continuing and will continue to live as peoples, under the political forms determined by the victor — conditions of life which, under the guise of being vague, are as arbitrary and absurd as those which furnished the ostensible and yet undeniable excuse for the re-appearance of the frenzied nationalism which upet the uneasy balance of world peace established in 1918, because the treaties then concluded failed to safeguard the peace.
We see with alarm that questions which should be principally considered from the point of view of human values, such as those of devastated areas and displaced persons, refugees and reparations, are apparently being considered from the political standpoint of conflicting interests and ideologies.
We believe that there are two questions on the agenda of this Assembly that transcend incidental considerations and affect the very existence of the United Nations itself: the specific question of the veto and the general question of the revision or correction of the San Francisco Charter.
With regard to the first, that is the question of the veto, we have already stated our views on the principle or substance of the matter. We believe that the purpose of the United Nations is to achieve a gradual substitution of the supremacy implicit in the veto, which means putting international politics first, by an extension of international justice applied equally to all States by all States. But we think that the disturbance in the world and the danger to peace are so great at this moment that it would be inopportune and imprudent to try to deprive the great Powers at present of a legitimate instrument of security which has been recently given to them after consideration of the immediate facts.
We must test the sincerity and the loyalty of the great Powers by the supreme standard of international justice, inviting them not to use the veto except in cases where they consider their security directly at stake. We believe the concept of security should be objective rather than subjective, and that it should be governed by actual threats or real danger and not by arbitrary inferences which are an insincere way of affirming or extending another kind of interest. If the great Powers use the veto only to protect their own security they will have the moral approval of the world, which carries such weight whenever their security is offered as an argument.
With respect to the revision of the Charter of San Francisco, we think that it has defects capable of being corrected without endangering good international relations, and that there will always be room for suggestions and possibilities of improvement; but we believe that its juridical architecture is still too fragile and that the re-establishment of peace within an equilibrium of interests is still too recent to run the risk of reopening the debate on the San Francisco Charter, at a time when full stability has not yet been reached and interests are still expanding.
With eloquence and sincerity, the President of the Assembly, in the speech that he made on the opening day of this session, recognized frankly that the United Nations lacked an atmosphere of confidence and support from world public opinion. This is a fact from which we may draw a further conclusion. It is not the fault of the small States that public opinion has as yet no faith in the United Nations. It is the fault of the great Powers.
Having set forth some general ideas on what we consider to be the essential factors influencing the life of the United Nations, the Peruvian delegation, in accordance with the suggestion that each State should confine itself to what it considers strictly necessary to express its views in the general debate, has placed its own on record, in the hope that they may be accepted as an honest contribution to the common good. We have used language which, we are sure, corresponds to the feelings of the majority and which we should sincerely like to see employed more frequently, shunning not the light or publicity but darkness and silence.

===== Session 02 - 1947 =====
The representatives of Peru have come here again with the same fears, but with renewed hope. Since the day when our country affixed its signature to the San Francisco Charter, we have seen an increase in the gravity of the problems, which we had largely foreseen for the post-war period; as well as an increase in the fears of peoples before the growing darkness on the horizon of peace. Nevertheless, we have such an ancient love of peace and such a deep-rooted faith in the spiritual and juridical influences which, like guardian angels, accompany humanity on its road into the future, that we continue to cherish the belief that intelligence and feeling, the determining factors in the human conscience, will exert an increasing influence to make our world a safe haven for men to live in harmony and comfort.
The love of peace and confidence in the final victory of the human spirit may not be a prerogative of the Latin-American soul, but they are certainly inalterable elements of it. Latin America presents a unique example of the simultaneous rise of many new States to free international life. This circumstance facilitated, and in due course brought about the formation of a collective conscience, making that period of our century-old history the inauguration of our solidarity and marked the raising of a banner to guide the course of our destiny. On that road, we have only the paths of peace and justice to follow. At times we have had long conflicts, but we have always settled them by legal means which are both an honour to our international community and a proof to all humanity that it is possible to live in harmony, and find spiritual and material happiness thereby.
We Latin-American States can therefore assert that when we attend these periodical meetings in the interests of moral progress and human aspirations, we do not do so to seek temporary settlements or the strengthening of international advantages by means of clever and subtle formulas; rather our participation represents an impartial and determined contribution to the achievement of the higher aims to which we are entirely devoted. This devotion represents a sincere spiritual need and a continual aspiration toward a moral philosophy inspired by our concept of human destiny.
Moreover, the disputes that have been settled in Latin-America by brotherly understanding have been geographically localized and local both in their causes and effects. They have not had, nor have we wished to give them, world-wide significance. We can therefore stand before an assembly of nations free of avowed or concealed interests to satisfy or maintain; free of the broad ambitions of imperialist policy and free of the excesses of over- bearing nationalism.
During the last half century we have twice contributed to the victory of our human and international concept of life. Some of our nations contributed the blood and spirit of their sons; all gave unstintingly of the riches of their soil and without recoiling before the economic and spiritual dislocation of their populations. Surely, we may claim the right to raise our voice for the re-establishment of human progress and welfare. The United Nations has not yet done anything to redeem the consequences of our special but effective sacrifice, nor, what is even more important, to further the exploitation of our potential wealth in order to build a stronger structure of peace based on human welfare.
In the reconstruction of devastated areas some progress has been made along the road of good, but sometimes sterile intentions. Faithful to their human philosophy, the Latin-American countries have reduced their individual and collective standards of living below the level imposed by the war itself, by contributing to the aid given by UNRRA.
But no direct measure has yet been taken to prevent the spread of misery from creating fresh devastation in the future. Such devastation would be even more serious — if that were possible — because although it might not perhaps result in new destruction of existing wealth, it would constitute the annihilation of the physical and intellectual efforts of starving man, blinded by life’s obscure but palpable forces to the love of his neighbour and the light of a better world.
I should like to refer to some of the concrete questions of a legal and political character which stand on this Assembly’s road as stumbling blocks to peace.
We share the legitimate desire for abolition of the right of veto conferred by the San Francisco Charter on the great Powers which, by this means, and not only by this means, hold a privileged position in the United Nations. The veto was a political necessity for the San Francisco Conference; it had to be embodied in the Charter as a legal principle. Let us not forget that the sound of battle had not yet died away when the Conference took place and the Charter was drafted. It was the great Powers of the United Nations that led the world to victory. It was only fair, in evaluating realistically the compensation for their sacrifices that they did not wish to subject the reward for their tremendous effort to principles or ideals; it was only fair that they should want to reserve their right to direct the restoration of military peace in the battle areas, and the establishment of a universal juridical peace which would leave mankind free to return to its human destiny. All the other States which granted them this right were entitled to expect that its use would be limited to the legitimate and necessarily temporary defence of their positions in connexion with the war and the immediate problems of the post-war period.
To concede or establish a right does not assume elimination of the concept of abuse of that right in the future by those enjoying it. If the possibility of abuse of a right is essentially inseparable from the idea of the right itself, there is implied a tacit but effective reservation which opposes the predominance of the right of all to the abuse of an individual right.
The great majority of the United Nations have viewed the abuse of the veto right with disgust and anxiety. We have always favoured peaceful and rational settlements, and in 1946 we hoped that the outcry against the use of the veto would have a decisive influence on the actions of those exercising it. Had this been so, there would have been no need for new and heated discussions, and the juridical balance of the world might have been restored. Unfortunately, once again in international history, warnings have proved useless, and now, a short while later, we find ourselves again faced with this problem, which has become acute.
Consequently, it has become necessary to regulate and limit the use of the veto so that its continued use in conjunction with a policy inspired by sinister motives shall not forge the chains which impede the progress of peace. We should ask those favouring the unrestricted use of veto if they think that the situation that existed when victory was won should serve indefinitely as a basis of world harmony or if, on the contrary, as we believe, the United Nations should maintain as its high and constant purpose, the establishment of peace for mankind and the legal equality of States, provided that they satisfy in the future those peace-loving qualities advocated by the Charter as a foundation for the international community. Even supposing that there may be persons drunk with power and ambition who desire the maintenance of the present situation, does history teach them nothing nor show them the precarious nature of “great Powers”? Were there not some great Powers on whose empires the sun never set? Were there not others who rose to the highest international rank with a rapidity only exceeded by that of their fall?
In spite of our opposition to the abuse constituted by immoderate use of veto, we do not favour extraordinary measures for revising the United Nations Charter. We have already said that it was certainly not perfect, and would undoubtedly continue to require revision, but we fear that at this critical time in international life the revision of the Charter might provoke new and deeper differences which might endanger the very existence of the United Nations.
If we limit ourselves to considering the veto problem as the urgent legal question at the present time, we might contemplate the possibility of replacing it by a form of weighted vote that would give the Powers now enjoying the veto power the assurance that, their views, would have considerable numerical representation in certain ballots. If such ballot required a two-thirds majority vote of the General Assembly, or Security Council as the case might be, but the vote of the great Powers were weighted and represented by a multiple figure, they might have less reason to fear a decisive majority being formed against them. As regards the small States, it is obvious that their opinions on international matters would appear to lose weight arithmetically in the voting, but certainly not more so than under the unrestricted use of the veto by one or a few States.
To retain the veto in its present form is, indeed, to accept the subordination of general interests, requirements and aspirations to the domination of nationalistic ambitions. Both the veto and the ambiguous unanimity formula which crippled the League of Nations are far from being an affirmation of independence, unless we wish to return to the former conception of absolute and unlimited sovereignty which is entirely opposed, both in substance and in form, to any international organization. Such an organization implies the limitation of the old, presumptuous absolute rights by a voluntary act, to some extent compromising with them, for the benefit of human life and welfare, which are the reason and purpose of our existence on earth.
We took no part in the special Commission dealing with the problem of atomic energy — which hangs over peace like a sword of Damocles — but we can express ourselves generally in favour of the view taken by the United States, which is prepared to relinquish its technical advantages — so cruelly and decisively applied in ending the war in the East — in exchange for effective international control ensuring that the renunciation of these advantages which reinforce its strength does not mean leaving it at the mercy of possible hidden threats in the obscure future.
A representative of Peru was a member of the Special Committee on Palestine. In accordance with the dictates of his conscience and wisdom, he subscribed to the majority report without, however, being committed to all its aspects. This will necessarily influence political thought on this subject in my country. We can therefore say that we believe the best solution to be partition of the territory and the establishment of two States in which the opinion of the respective majorities will be essentially respected. But we consider that the State to be constituted for the Jews, in fulfilment of an, old multilateral international promise, should be sufficiently large, within reason, to ensure not only the normal development of the life of the Jews now in Palestine, but also of at least another generation and of the tens of thousands of dispersed or exiled Europeans awaiting the fulfilment of that promise on nearby shores. They cannot be re-absorbed into the social environment from which they have been separated or expelled by hardship, but they can, owing to the special qualities of their race, found new centres of happiness and progress. It is right that we should hold this view, for our own national constitution is based on respect for nationalities and human rights, and because we believe that if the Jews do not find a modest but safe national home, the only result will be postponement of the solution of a problem which time and future events may aggravate.
Trusting in the promise of technical aid by the United Nations contained in the relevant resolution of the first session of the Assembly, my Government recommended to the Secretary-General, as he mentioned in Iris report, the establishment of a committee or group of experts to study the effects of the use of coca leaf in the Andes, the causes and economic repercussions of this habit and the possibility of eradicating it. In stating its desires, the Peruvian Government also informed the Secretary-General that it wished to obtain the assistance and opinion of qualified experts to reorganize the control of narcotic drugs throughout our territory. This is more a human than a national problem. For centuries the unusual endurance of the Peruvian native, especially in the Andes region, has been generally attributed to his use of the coca leaf but that habit appears to have psychological effects, We wish assistance in determining scientifically the nature of these effects with the laudable aim of improving the physical and spiritual conditions in which a part of the Peruvian population is living; the health of these people has been, and continues to be, the concern of our scientific institutions and of our Government, and they are carrying out ambitious and practical investigations on this subject.
I should like to refer to the initiative taken by the United States for the creation of a subsidiary body of the Assembly which could partially bridge the gaps in the time and activities of the United Nations between the regular sessions of this great body. We consider it an auspicious step towards co-ordinating our common aims and sustaining the direct interest of all the United Nations in the problems with which they are concerned. Moreover, we may frankly state that we look with sympathy on an idea that would result in increasing the influence of the small States in the deliberations, and eventually, in the decisions and in diminishing the occasional privilege of those States which happen to be called upon to play a direct and special part.
The Government of Peru supports the efforts to resume the work of codifying international law. Whilst it is true that present problems in this field render it more difficult, it is not less true that the drafting of rules is an objective undertaking likely to strengthen the spirit of peace. In this connexion we are fulfilling what might be called our historic mandate, as the meetings devoted to American solidarity originated and continued to be held in Lima throughout sixty years; the steadfast purpose of these meetings was the legal organization of our continent through international agreements proscribing war, the legal systematization of inter-American relations and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
In all the present difficulties of international life, Peru, like the other Latin-American countries, takes an impartial point of view governed by high moral concepts and by our pre-eminently spiritual understanding of life. That is why we see these problems differently from other countries which confuse them with their political interests and their position in the world. We may say that we are indirectly concerned in these matters in so far as the inevitable interdependence of our world and the adherence to great principles and noble doctrines may involve our own national life as they have already done on two terrible occasions.
We wish this Assembly and the United Nations to appreciate fully the manner in which the small States are rigorously and conscientiously fulfilling their duty as members of the international community and to believe that we have sufficient awareness of our personal responsibilities, obligations and rights to discern the true interests of nations and individuals, without being influenced by demagogic doctrines of the future or of the past. Our supreme desire is that nations and individuals may live without fear of the resurrection of extinct myths and hallucinatory threats.

===== Session 03 - 1948 =====
Mr. GARCIA-SAYAN expressed his delegation’s pleasure that the United Nations had met in the city of Paris. It was a tribute to France and a recognition of its important role in world politics. It also gave the representatives of the nations an opportunity of renewing contact with an unquenchable source of culture.
His country brought to the task to be performed an unbroken attachment to peace and an international tradition of devotion to juridical solutions and to understanding based on mutual respect between sovereign States. Peru claimed to be a constructive and valuable element in the task in which the United Nations were engaged, for it was convinced that the idea of interdependence between States, now widespread in the world, was regarded by nations great and small as a peculiar and essential attribute of world organization.
General political circumstances and the views expressed in the general discussion sufficiently demonstrated the great dangers and difficulties which faced the world and the United Nations and filled the mind with profound anxiety. Awareness of such dangers and difficulties would inspire a very pessimistic view of the future, were it not still believed that human and spiritual considerations might yet triumph over motives of politics and balance of power. Victory had admittedly not meant peace. The elements of distrust and the factors engendering it had to be removed so that efforts to establish permanent peace might develop on solid ground.
Happily the United Nations had shown its appreciation of the fact that human problems were more important than political ones, the solutions to which were of an immediate and often an ephemeral nature. That appreciation was shown by the incorporation in the United Nations, as specialized agencies, of the International Labour Organisation, the International Civil Aviation Organization, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, etc. Those were bodies concerned with technical and social action on the international plane which, if its aims were to be achieved, had to proceed apart from political ideologies and in an atmosphere of universality and co-operation between all nations.
Against that international background the American republics, daughters of the West and linked with Europe’s destinies and responsibilities since the last two wars, had worked unremittingly to strengthen their continental system, the oldest established of all regional groups based on mutual understanding. The similarity between their political systems, the preference for legal methods, the absence of racial or religious struggles for mastery had no doubt favoured the ideals of the liberators as expressed in 1826 at the Panama Congress convened by Bolivar from the capital of Peru. Those ideals had been largely achieved through a series of legal institutions to which the American republics could point with pride and which certainly were an ornament to international law. The American States constituted a group of nations organized on the basis of a fundamental charter drafted in accordance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations. The system of consultation on urgent problems had reached a high level of perfection with the creation of a permanent organ. The procedure for the pacific settlement of disputes found its most perfect expression in the Rio de Janeiro and Bogota pacts. The pact signed at Rio de Janeiro represented the first collective defence treaty signed in accordance with Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations and provided for the application to the aggressor of coercive sanctions which might extend to military action. The complementary pact signed at Bogota was a veritable code of pacific methods of settlement which incorporated in the American legal system, on the basis of past experience and of the development of international law, every means recognized as efficacious in combating war. It was hoped that the spirit of that progressive organization of the American States would prevail within the United Nations, for it opened the way to conciliation of interests without impairing national sovereignty.
The representative of Peru hoped that the constructive optimism which had yielded such happy results in the American regional sphere would prevail in the United Nations. It therefore shared the view that the means of action and the legal machinery of the Organization should be strengthened, so that it might play its full part as a safeguard for large and small States.
Such were the views and considerations that governed his country’s actions in the United Nations. Under their influence Peru had participated and would continue to participate in its work.
Turning to the questions dealt with in the Secretary-General’s annual report, Mr. Garcia-Sayan said that his country, with full awareness of its duties as a Member of the United Nations and urged by its desire for peace and for settlements by process of law, had agreed to appoint one of its nationals as a member of the Special Committee that went to Palestine to study on the spot the grave moral and human problem existing in that territory. That member had concurred in the majority report (A/316). In agreement with him, his country had then supported partition.
The events which had subsequently stained the Holy Land with blood showed the grave difficulties involved in carrying out resolution 181 (II) of the Assembly and had, as was known, led some Members to believe that it would be better to reconsider the recommendation before imposing it by force. In view of those circumstances, his Government had abstained from taking part in any decision to impose the partition plan, though it was still deeply concerned with the grievous problem involved, the importance and seriousness of which it fully recognized.
In connexion with the proposal (A/241) submitted to the United Nations Assembly in November 1946 for breaking off relations with the Spanish Government and imposing other sanctions, the Government of Peru had stated its view that, according to the investigation carried out by the Security Council’s Sub-Committee, the Spanish Government did not constitute an actual threat to peace such as would permit the application of the coercive measures envisaged in the Charter. Only the Assembly, it had subsequently declared, was competent to consider whether action should be taken to promote realization of the rights and fundamental freedoms envisaged in Article 13 of the Charter, since it was clear that any action taken by it, to be equitable, had to be extended to all the nations in which freedom was being restricted.
In voicing that attitude his country had in no way sought, either directly or indirectly, to express an opinion on the internal political situation in Spain, for it was convinced, now as in the past, that only the most punctilious abstention from such pronouncements made international harmony possible. Non-intervention was a principle of public law, enshrined in the fundamental documents of Pan-American history, which had enabled the American peoples to create a vigorous system, gradually strengthened stage by stage, in which the freedom of the States and international solidarity were interwoven. He understood the desire of friendly nations that situations deemed unjust should be remedied, but feared lest that noble crusading spirit should give rise to new or greater conflicts. The principle of non-intervention was specially designed to safeguard the sovereignty and independence of small States, and was subject only to the collective action envisaged in the San Francisco Charter for safeguarding international peace when it was threatened or broken.
In line with that opinion, his delegation was opposed to the Assembly’s resolution 39 (I) recommending the recall of ambassadors and ministers, but Peru had nevertheless adjusted its relations with the Spanish Government accordingly. The General Assembly at its second session had abstained from ratifying the 1946 decision as had been proposed, and had confined itself to expressing its confidence that the Security Council would exercise its responsibilities if it considered that the situation in Spain so required. As was known, the Security Council had removed the question from its agenda on 25 June last.
In those circumstances, his Government had felt that no formal or moral obligation now restricted its full freedom to put an end to the ban on diplomatic relations with Spain. That decision had been motivated not only by the principles of respect for the personality and dignity of States on which his country’s international policy was based but also by the firm conviction that no divergences of trend or political methods, or any other circumstances, could shake the enduring bond between the Spanish people and its daughter nations, which followed the same path within the Christian civilization of the West and were united by indestructible bonds constituted by the identity of language, religion and customs, and by the common obligations and the common heritage of blood and spirit.
Turning to the problem of the veto in the Security Council, Mr. Garcia-Sayan said that the unanimity rule as laid down in Article 27 of the Charter had been accepted at San Francisco, for obvious political reasons, as an inevitable evil, in the belief that it would be temporary. The abuse of that privilege had been denounced in successive Assemblies and had aroused growing opposition to it. Its abolition or, at least, restriction or modification of its use was therefore called for. His delegation had submitted to the Assembly in November 1946 a draft resolution (A/C.1/52) recommending a more restricted use of the unanimity rule, and limiting it to cases in which those countries making use of it should be able to state publicly in what way the problem or matter in question affected their security.
Sharing, therefore, as it did the justified desire that the so-called right of the veto should be abolished, his delegation would take the opportunity of explaining its attitude at length when the subject came up for discussion in the competent Committee. He was sure that some solution of such a debated problem would be found.
Referring to the Interim Committee, Peru had participated with the greatest interest in that Committee’s work. Experience of the work done by that body, the establishment of which was authorized under Article 22 of the Charter, had led to the belief that it had achieved positive results. He therefore supported the proposals in favour of continuing it, as it supplemented and facilitated the work of the Assembly, without detracting from the powers and responsibilities of the Security Council.
With reference to the admission of new Members, the aspiration of the United Nations to achieve an increasingly universal character was not in keeping with the discriminatory attitude which had been displayed towards certain applications for admission. Since, as the Secretary-General stated in his report, the United Nations had been built to contain within peaceful hounds Members having distinct economic or political systems it was impossible to see how such exclusions could be justified without detriment to the aims pursued.
As some representatives had already emphasized, the rejection of the application by Italy, with which his country was united by the universal ties of Latin culture and by the generous contribution of the Italian people to the economic and spiritual development of South American countries, had been very painful to the Latin American republics. He hoped, therefore, that Italy, as a genuinely democratic State and with all its qualities of national and human dignity, might soon become a member of the United Nations community.
As a member of the Economic and Social Council, Peru had actively participated in the work of that permanent body. As a member of an ad hoc committee it was among those who had recommended the establishment of the Economic Commission for Latin America, the first session of which had taken place at Santiago de Chile the previous June. Peru considered the establishment of that Commission to be of the highest importance, its function being to consider the urgent economic problems deriving from the war and affecting the Western hemisphere, to raise the level of economic activities and to strengthen the economic relations of Latin American countries both among themselves and with the other countries of the world.
On the proposal of Peru, a resolution (E/CN. 12/72) had been approved at Santiago, recommending the new Commission to study a system for the multilateral compensation of payments and a system of deferred payments for adjusting trade balances, with a view to assisting the respective economies of the South American countries, which were hampered by lack of foreign exchange.
The new Commission, in virtue of another resolution (E/CN. 12/66), had also undertaken the study of the possibilities of European immigration to Latin America, taking into account his country’s proposal, based on the statement Mr. Gareia-Sayan had made on 29 December 1947 in his then capacity of Minister of Foreign Affairs of Peru, on the Marshall Plan and its relation to Latin America.
That statement had been made in a spirit of sincere co-operation with the just and noble proposals for European recovery envisaged by the Marshall Plan. It had referred to the necessity of finding a formula which would ensure the effective recovery of the European nations, an essential element for world peace and equilibrium, without destroying the expectations of industrial development in the Latin American countries or impairing the resulting welfare of their peoples. For that purpose it had proposed the study of a large-scale plan for European migration to Latin America, including the promotion or creation in Latin-American countries of the conditions requisite for the welcome of immigrants. The relief of population pressure which would be experienced by the over-populated European nations — over-populated, that is, in relation to their natural resources — would, it had been said, have the double advantage of, on the one hand, reducing the amount of supplies necessary for European consumption, and on the other, of making possible an increased production in the New World. At the same time the Latin-American countries would see an increase of their capacity to purchase both European and North American manufactured goods. All that would result in a greater expansion and better use of the world’s manpower.
Those ideas, which had been favourably commented on, soon made headway in the Inter-American Economic and Social Council, which had taken steps to consult the American Governments. Though everyone knew that the European Recovery Programme would take place outside the sphere of the United Nations, he had ventured to stress his comments on that Programme, since those ideas had previously been referred to in commissions connected with the United Nations. Before being considered at the session of the Economic Commission for Latin America held in Santiago, a proposal by the Peruvian delegate had been adopted in Geneva the previous February by the Permanent Migration Committee of the International Labour Organisation. That constituted acceptance of his delegation’s plan since, in that proposal, the Governing Body of the ILO had been requested to urge on the countries concerned the need for co-ordinating international effort assisting the Latin American republics, with a view to absorbing without delay a substantial volume of European migration.
The occasion was not one for illustrating further the nature of Peru’s efforts. He would simply express the hope that those efforts might make headway in the United Nations agencies concerned; for, as the Secretary-General’s report said, international migration was of worldwide concern in connexion with population problems, and with problems of reconstruction, full employment and improvement of standards of living. The Secretary-General should accordingly announce a concrete programme to deal with migration in conformity with the decisions of the Economic and Social Council.
In the field of the social activities of the Economic and Social Council and in relation to the same subject of immigration, he would like to mention accession of Peru, as a signatory, to the International Refugee Organization and Peru’s support of its aims. Under the agreement concluded, various groups of European immigrants had arrived in Peru in the course of the year under the auspices of the IRO, which had expressed its satisfaction with the welcome given to those refugees. He would also mention that in Peru they enjoyed the same safeguards and the same economic and social rights as Peruvians, and that very great opportunities lay open to them.
Turning to the question of human rights, he said that his country definitely associated itself with and participated in the efforts being made by the United Nations to achieve international co-operation in the matter of recognition and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion. He accordingly attached very great importance to the adoption by the Assembly of the declaration drafted by the Commission on Human Rights. But it must be borne in mind, for the purpose of co-ordination, that the American countries had already signed a declaration (E/CN.4/122) on the same subject at Bogota.
It would not, however, be enough for the Assembly to approve the draft declaration. If it was to be given full effect steady and patient efforts must be made to have it incorporated in the national law of each State. The growing tendency of the law towards socialization showed that a good deal of work towards the improvement of the formulae expressed in the declaration would have to be undertaken by the technical bodies of the United Nations studying the problems related to the rights and duties of the individual and of groups of individuals.
In that field a considerable task would devolve on the International Labour Organisation, over whose Governing Body the representative of his country had the honour to preside. As regards freedom of association, the ILO had recently approved a convention which represented the first attempt to introduce into an international legal body one of the freedoms proclaimed in the United Nations Charter.
In the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, his delegation had supported the establishment of a Commission of Enquiry into the effects of chewing the Coca Leaf by the indigenous peoples of certain regions of the Andes (E/575). During its second session the General Assembly had, by resolution 134 (II), drawn the attention of the Economic and Social Council to that request, which was finally approved at the seventh session recently held by the Council at Geneva,
The habit, which was general among almost 20 million natives of South America, had already been extensively studied in his country. However, his country had considered it to be its moral and international responsibility to ascertain, possibly through the highest scientific authorities, the harmful effects of the habit on the individual, with a view to considering appropriate restrictions on the cultivation of the plant. It was to be hoped that the General Assembly would give its final approval to the proposal adopted by the Economic and Social Council concerning the matter.
The International Law Commission, whose members were to be elected by this Assembly, deserved all good wishes. Nowhere had the work of codification of international law achieved better results than in America. The progress made by the American countries would certainly be an example and a stimulus for the work of the Commission in the international sphere.
In conclusion, Mr. Garcia-Sayan said that the nations represented in the Assembly had a great task to carry out for the benefit of their peoples. It was incumbent upon each and all of them to ensure that the power and position of their nations, great or small, should be boldly used for purposes of peace and general wellbeing which would enable them to enter, without fear or suspicion, upon the path pointed out to them by the hand of God and by the desire for friendly relations of men of good will throughout the world.
In the splendid city of Paris, in which they all had some share, man’s capacity for harmonious achievements had reached its noblest and most beautiful expression. He hoped it would be for them a source of inspiration as well as an inducement to compromise in order to safeguard the benefits which peace afforded to the peoples.
With faith in the supreme human values which elevated and guided the life of communities, they should devote themselves to restoring, on the basis of sincere and effective cooperation, the confidence of world public opinion in the United Nations and the hopes which the world reposed in that meeting.


===== Session 04 - 1949 =====
Mr. Belaunde observed that the fourth session of the General Assembly was being held under the anxiously watching eyes of humanity. A sincere self-examination would make it possible to say without exaggeration that the Organization had passed through a grave period of crisis.
81.	Without denying the growing institutional and technical development, and the great services which were being rendered by the United Nations and its specialized agencies in various parts of the world, it must be conceded that in such an organization it was necessary to consider not only technical progress and institutional development, but above all the spirit, the moral atmosphere upon which international peace and justice were founded.
82.	The League of Nations had also solved many technical problems, but it had not known how to safeguard the fundamental principles of community life among nations, namely, the principle of the supreme dignity of the human person and the principle that the State was subject to justice.
83.	Hidden causes, incompatible with those two concepts essential to the international community, had sapped the life-blood of the League of Nations. And there was a danger that, despite technical developments and increasing institutional progress, the same erroneous concepts of life might infiltrate into certain sectors, creating an atmosphere of distrust in all humanity.
84.	To deny the existence of that atmosphere of distrust would be insincere and positively dangerous, because the clearer and more emphatic the diagnosis of the ills which had beset humanity during the preceding years, the more effective would be the cure.
85.	Mr. Belaunde spoke of the spirit which had animated the San Francisco Conference, and recalled the profound emotion felt by the representatives of the younger nations when the representative of China had said that in the Dumbarton Oaks proposals, the word “justice” was not mentioned. It had then been proclaimed that the world community was not to be a super-State, nor was it to be a balance of absolutely sovereign States, but a true family of nations.
86.	It was for the sake of the principles proclaimed in the Preamble of the Charter that the Peruvian delegation desired to safeguard that instrument. Just as it was impossible to conceive of biological life without air, so it was impossible to conceive of international life except in an atmosphere of justice. For that reason it was necessary to proclaim that international life would have no consistency unless there was a return to the old idea that the State lived and moved in an atmosphere of international peace and justice, an idea which had only disappeared because of the separatists, the exclusivists and the nationalists of the seventeenth, eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.
87.	Those standards had been established in the preamble and in the principles of the Charter, but unfortunately provisions contrary to those foundations of international life had filtered into the operative part of the Charter. In Mr. Belaunde’s view, two provisions were involved. One of those was not essentially unjust, but it had been worded in an equivocal fashion. Thus in the matter of international jurisdiction, no mention had been made of the principle set forth in the arbitration treaty signed in Washington in 1929, which proclaimed that matters which were within the domestic jurisdiction of a State in accordance with international law were excluded.
88.	But more serious was the fact that a false principle concerning relations among nations had been adopted and had led to consequences which nations were suffering and would suffer for a long time to come.
89.	For one moment it had been thought that unanimity would be achieved in all matters, and it had been established as an absolute rule. The smaller nations had wanted to differentiate coercive measures from pacific measures and had said that a normal situation in the international community was one where questions could be solved by peaceful means, where the rule to be applied was not that of unanimity but only the rule of a specified majority.
90.	In the case of enforcement measures, the veto could be applied as Belgium and Peru had proposed; Peru, however, had gone so far as to accept the principle that in the case of enforcement measures which might jeopardize the political balance of the Organization, the rule of unanimity was necessary. The mistake was to have established unanimous decisions as the rule and majority decisions as the exception.
91.	Mr. Belaunde said that, in order to avoid any controversy likely to disturb the peaceful atmosphere in which the meetings of the Assembly were being held, he did not wish to reopen the discussion on that matter. The small nations should, however, take advantage of the opportunity to make a cordial and respectful appeal to the great Powers to look upon the exercise of the veto as approved by the Assembly as the moral expression of the obligation which they had assumed at San Francisco. For at San Francisco the great Powers had declared that it should not be forgotten that the veto was to be used only in exceptional cases.
92.	The veto, when used without any reason, was not consistent with the legal concepts underlying the Charter; when used in that way, the veto implied the idea of a State in which the Government was essentially a power and a political institution of absolute supremacy. The delegation of Peru therefore maintained that the idea that justice was more important than the State was incompatible with the veto; in its view, civil law was based on respect for the individual and human freedom. Sovereignty meant the liberty of the State to develop freely in economic, political and cultural spheres, but to develop with responsibility.
93.	The delegation of Peru looked upon the rights and duties of the State from a different point of view from that of the International Law Commission. The rights and duties of States were closely connected with the actual concept of the State; if the State were considered as an entity based on force, its rights and duties would not be the same as those of the State considered as a moral entity, free and responsible before justice. Many rights which were different from those enumerated and considered in the draft declaration of the International Law Commission resulted from the latter conception. It was necessary to emphasize the right of free development, not merely from a political but also from a juridical and cultural angle, and to condemn not only political intervention, but also intervention in the economic and cultural spheres.
94.	Mr. Belaunde recalled the meeting of the Congress of lawyers in Lima which had condemned such forms of intervention. He added that his delegation did not understand why the International Law Commission had disregarded statements which Peru considered fundamental. The United Nations was not a super-state and Within it each State had its sovereignty, its domestic and jurisdiction and its spiritual characteristics which were as important as sovereignty.
95.	It was not possible to allow considerations of political influence, of ideological similarities, or any other such considerations, to govern votes concerning the admission of new Members to the United Nations. The idea of the universality of the United Nations which had been established in San Francisco required that any nation, any organized people which had fulfilled its international. obligations and was peace-loving, should belong to the United Nations, de facto and de jure.
96.	Consequently, the purely political criterion should be abandoned and the criterion which was in the Charter should be applied. In considering an application from a new country for membership in the United Nations, the fact that that country existed as a State, that it had a Government which controlled the administrative machinery, and that that Government was peace-loving, should be an adequate criterion.
97.	Mr. Belaunde said that the Assembly had a very high and noble mission, that it was the Charter of the United Nations in action, and that it should represent the juridical conscience of mankind. It must eschew any debate which divided the nations into groups whether racial or cultural.
98.	From a practical point of view, the Assembly could do something which might seem modest, but which was really very important: it could consolidate and affirm existing law and facilitate its execution. In considering each particular case, the United Nations should carefully note whether it involved a principle of existing law, contractual or philosophical, which had been accepted and sanctioned by international law, and then give that principle all the weight and all the moral authority of a vote, by an enormous majority of the Assembly, if possible. The Assembly would then become, not only the guardian of the spirit of the Charter, but also the reformer of international law.
99.	In conclusion, Mr. Belaunde said that it had been from Lima that Bolivar had made his appeal to the' countries of America for solidarity and international justice. Peru had repeated that message at all conferences, and all the sister countries of America would recognize the position that Peru had held in the vanguard of the defenders of the principles of international law.


===== Session 05 - 1950 =====
The General Assembly of the United Nations is assuredly meeting a time of crisis. This crisis was foreseen by the smaller countries, which understood how precarious and uncertain were the grounds for the assumption that there would be unanimity among the great Powers; they realized that as soon as the balance of power was disrupted, one of those States might adopt a policy based on the discredited theory of the balance of power, notwithstanding the principles enunciated in the Charter.
141.	The smaller countries considered that possibility, as well as the difficulty resulting from the paralysing effects of the veto. Hence they strove resolutely in support of two institutions which, to my mind, constitute the safeguard of the Organization. The first is the General Assembly, with its extensive powers; regional agreements constitute the second of those institutions. The purpose of those agreements is not only to seek the peaceful settlement of disputes, but also to provide for collective defence in case of an unforeseen attack.
142.	This has been a tenacious and difficult struggle. Many delegations were in favour of keeping the Security-Council, as was the case in the former League of Nations, in a position of theoretical supremacy. So far as responsibility was concerned, we accepted that supremacy, but could not admit it from the point of view of the general functions for promoting international peace and security.
143.	The regional agreements were opposed in the name of universality, because it was thought that a prudent and reasonable geographical differentiation was; incompatible with universality, when really it was nothing other than the application of the obvious and recognized sociological principle of the division of labour.
144.	But the smaller nations won the day and the Assembly of the United Nations took on that perfect legal form proper for the body which was to represent the universal conscience of mankind in complete fulfilment of all the principles and purposes of the Charter.
145.	This does not mean that we were so ingenuous as to think that in establishing an Assembly with such wide powers we should be setting up a sort of superstate. Not at all. We believed that there could be no exercise of national or international functions, whether or not they were considered sovereign, except on the basis of strict respect for law and international morality. We thought that the Assembly, however great its powers might be, should respect the law in force, that it should use and endorse the regional agreements and, above all, that in its work it should be inspired by the highest standards of international ethics and world public opinion.
146.	 But within these reasonable limits of an immense I field of action, there still remained to the Assembly all those elements which militate in favour of peace, which draw the peoples of the world closer together by means of culture or economic co-operation and which enable them, at any moment, to unite to defend what is right and to oppose aggression. We place the functions of the Assembly precisely in this field of action, which does not offer the limitless scope of a super-State but a narrower range of authority, as clearly laid down in the Charter. Since the proposal submitted by the United States representative deals precisely with this subject, one of the main topics which we have to discuss and on which it is essential that all delegations should keep a clear mind is that of the functions of the Assembly.
147.	I do not desire to abuse your patience, nevertheless I urgently request you to give me your attention while I make a short study of these functions.
148.	We may say that the functions of the Assembly have been accorded varying importance. It has been said that there is some redundancy or repetition in the different Articles which deal with this question. A careful analysis of these Articles shows, however, that there is no redundancy. Occasionally some expression is repeated but there is a definite idea of the relative importance of the various functions of the Assembly. Article 10 states categorically that the Assembly may discuss any questions or any matters within the scope of the Charter, or relating to the powers and functions of any organs provided for in the Charter. I was glad to note that the United States Secretary of State, the leader of the United States delegation, referred to Article 1 of the Charter, because that first Article should be considered in connexion with Article 10. Article 1 is quite specific and states that one of the purposes of the United Nations is to take effective measures to ensure peace, which means that not only the Council but also the Assembly may effectively take or recommend such measures.
149.	Moreover, there is a very important part of Article 10 which we may call the structural part. It deals with the powers of the organs of the United Nations. I wonder: if any doubt should arise regarding the competence of these organs, would it have been possible to leave the problems unsolved, or do we not find in Article 10, which defines the powers of the Assembly and provides that it may make recommendations to the various organs relating to their powers, the solutions to many problems which might arise in the event of defective functioning of the Security Council?
150.	But the Charter provides that the Assembly may discuss not only all questions relating to what we might call the letter of the Charter but also, as is clear from Article 11, paragraph 1, questions concerning international co-operation and the maintenance of international relations.
151.	It has rightly been pointed out that in Article 11 the word “consider” is used, and this has a wider meaning than the word “discuss”. But it will be seen that so far the Assembly has only general functions, either to apply the principles of the Charter or to ensure cooperation in the maintenance of international peace. But that interpretation would be mistaken, since paragraph 2 of this same Article 11 does not refer to a general discussion but gives the Assembly the power to discuss and to consider any questions, and to make recommendations. This means that, where a matter is not already being dealt with by the Security Council, the General Assembly is not only, as General Romulo, representative of the Philippines, said, a debating society and an organ reflecting public opinion, but a body which can take positive measures on certain concrete problems.
152.	It is clear that if these positive measures require effective action, not just “action” in the general meaning of the word, but “effective action”, they are within the competence of the Security Council; and since there cannot be a double jurisdiction, the Assembly must waive its own and must make a recommendation or refer the question back to the Security Council. If the Council has assumed responsibility for the matter, the Assembly cannot intervene, unless requested to do so by the Council, or at the time when it is notified by the Secretary-General that the Council has ceased to deal with the matter.
153.	Finally, let us remember the famous Vandenberg amendment. I should like to pay tribute to that great personality, Mr. Vandenberg, who is not only an American politician but a figure of world-wide repute. Taking note of the recommendation of all the younger countries that the Assembly should be made an effective institution, he proposed the amendment which now appears as Article 14 of the Charter, under which the Assembly may discuss any situation, regardless of its origin, in order that it may recommend measures for the maintenance of peace, and extend its jurisdiction to include violations of the provisions of the Charter.
154.	Thus the Assembly is clearly competent to discuss, consider and make recommendations, if the Council does not itself make recommendations in the limited field of concrete, coercive action on any question; the Assembly not only has competence with respect to powers, to the purposes of the Charter and to international co-ordination, but can also examine all violations of the Charter itself.
155.	This means, then, that the Assembly has the widest legal powers; but it is clear, I repeat, that these wide powers must always presuppose a respect for the laws in force. The Assembly was established to ensure respect for the law, and therefore it cannot assume a power incompatible with the sovereignty of a State, because the law imposes absolute respect for this sovereignty. The Assembly cannot assume any function which lies within the domestic jurisdiction or the constitution of any State. The Assembly cannot modify a situation resulting from bilateral or multilateral agreements. On the contrary, it must use its authority to approve and encourage recourse to the measures elaborated by the parties to these agreements. Finally, the Assembly cannot modify the scale of values established by regional arrangements for the peaceful settlement of disputes.
156.	The Assembly’s jurisdiction is thus clearly defined; it constitutes what may be called the, legal foundation for any proposal for convening the Assembly in case of emergency to deal with the exigencies of peace when the Council is paralysed. I must point out that this is a question with which we have always been much concerned. At San Francisco, in the debates in Committee II, we asked: can we accent an Assembly which is impotent when confronted with a paralysed Council? It would be tantamount to accepting that the United Nations was at the mercy of a single Power.
157.	The veto has obviously gone far beyond the purpose for which it was devised. As I have already indicated here, the veto was not a right but an obligation; an obligation to seek unanimity, to explore every avenue of agreement and to sacrifice, minor points of difference. There is a great difference between a right exercised as a privilege and the rule of unanimity considered as a constant obligation to ensure peace and to find a fitting solution to international problems. Even if such an agreement were not reached, if the great Powers were not under an immense moral obligation to make a constant effort of readjustment in order to achieve the desired unanimity, it is obvious that the fate of this Organization, which was conceived by men who had fought for peace, which reflected the ultimate achievement of international law and was, as it were, the ornament of civilization, could not be left to the capricious will of one Power or at the mercy of irreconcilable disagreement. If the Assembly were powerless and did not possess the full powers, which I have indicated, to discuss, consider and, in certain cases, to make effective recommendations, then the veto would have brought about the paralysis not only of the Security Council but also, in some measure, the paralysis and disintegration of the Organization itself. It would have justified the terrible irony with which a representative, perhaps too ironical or too prophetic, said that the conflicts among the small Powers disappeared in the United Nations and that the United Nations itself disappeared in the conflicts among the great Powers.
158.	That was not the true intention and the spirit of the founders of the Organization. The Latin American countries, however, perceived clearly, from the outset, that at some stage the veto would paralyse or hamper the action of the United Nations by paralysing the Security Council. And since they felt that the defence of the continent, which was in some ways a basis — perhaps the principal basis — for a peaceful future, should not be left to the mercy of shifts in the balance of power, they proposed regional arrangements. It was said that regional arrangements would destroy the universal character of the Organization. It was said that they would be unworkable and would lead to the formation of separate and hostile blocs. We replied that the division of labour did not imply disintegration but that sociologically it was an affirmation of unity and integrity, and the facts have borne this out.
159.	The regional arrangements have been fruitful. Not only have they saved and strengthened the fifty-year old Pan-American Union and, in some measure, guaranteed the peace of the continent against intracontinental and extra-continental conflicts and aggression, but also, illustrating, perhaps, Nietzsche’s dictum that he who acts does not trouble himself about principles, they have had the far-reaching effect of opening the way for the North Atlantic Treaty and the agreements between European countries for their own defence.
160.	We who owe so much to Europe and who feel that spiritually we are its children, nurtured in its culture, must welcome the fact that Europe has grasped, as the American institutions have done, the principle of these regional arrangements which are a safeguard against possible aggression in the future.
161.	I know that some may say that these regional arrangements, which imply defence and mutual support and co-operation in enforcement measures, are to some extent a return to the old policy of armed peace and the balance of power, which was always precarious and unstable and which has been supposed — often without justification, for there are many instances in which the balance of power has prevented aggression — to be the cause of past wars.
162.	However, this is not a question of a policy of aggression. The United States Secretary of State gave a very clear definition of collective security. In the balance of power, everything depended upon power itself: if the balance was destroyed there was no limit to the influence of the State which had become predominant. What is needed today is to establish power in a reasonable manner and to distribute it in defence of right, under the authority of an international body. Only those who were tragically naive could have believed that by the mere signing of the Charter of San Francisco and the eloquent proclamation of certain principles, a fundamental change would be wrought in human nature and that, either individually or collectively, the psychological laws of that unfathomable phenomenon called the will to power would be changed.
163.	We made provision in the Charter for possible violations. The Charter laid down the principle of the limitation of armaments; but from the beginning we also knew that the application of the judicial principle of the limitation of armaments would encounter many difficulties. In point of fact, the Assembly was given the power to make recommendations with regard to armaments and the regulation of armaments. But we well knew that many interests might be opposed to such limitation. And finally a situation arose which in the future will be examined by historians and philosophers studying our civilization when they compare our peace with that of Westphalia, Utrecht, Paris or Vienna. This was the tragic situation: while the western Powers, which had suffered so much through the war, and in particular the European Powers which had been devastated, were reducing their military strength to a minimum and devoting themselves entirely to the work of reconstruction and the heavy programme of social reform, the great Eurasian Power was maintaining or increasing its reserves of manpower in an effort to substitute for the guarantees of the Charter the other guarantee of a chain of Powers or of nations which were subject to its influence and on which it endeavoured in every way to impose its ideology, in spite of the fact that those nations possessed a cultural heritage based on the supreme dignity of man and not on the absolute supremacy of the State.
164.	It is not in rancour or in a spirit of acrimony that we are recalling this lack of equilibrium today. We well know that it is the desire of every delegation that this debate should preserve and, if possible, strengthen the spirit of understanding and good will, and that it should afford all nations an opportunity of vying with each other in their love of peace and above all in their sincere co-operation for the attainment of peace. But I must draw attention to the facts as they are. I must stress that disequilibrium which has of course made it impossible to adopt certain measures for the limitation of armaments, or to adopt any such measures which would not simply fix an inequitable ratio or a ratio which, while resulting in a reduction in numbers, would lead to the continuation of this very disequilibrium which we condemn.
165.	What we have to do, in fact, is to create the necessary enforcement organs within the framework of international authority; in a way, that means the creation of a new equilibrium, but this time of an equilibrium for peace and justice. I say a new equilibrium for peace and justice because our idealism cannot be naive, because we must have a sense of reality and because it is true that right is endowed with immense moral force; for, though we shall never be able to accept the theory that might is right, we also know full well, and of this we are certain, that right has need of might. “We who have the right; we shall have the might; then there, will be justice” was an old saying in England. We have the right; we must have might in order to have a living, breathing justice.
166.	But to do this we need first strengthen the moral factors which fortunately do exist, and thus renew the spirit of confidence in our hearts; we must turn to the very countries from which we seem to be separated by an unbridgeable gulf and say to them: “Certain concepts of life cannot be spread by mechanical and revolutionary means, the idea that order can be forced upon nations by means of warfare or material influence was a utopian belief. It was also utopian to think that power would make them accept glorious freedom. It was equally utopian to believe that a particular concept of social justice could be imposed by force. Any policy which advocates the subversive spreading of certain principles leads only to an attack on the sacred right of nations to self-determination. Order, freedom and justice are happily reconcilable, but they can develop in a nation only thanks to the spontaneous forces of the native soil and vitality.”
167.	Let us impart this conviction of ours to the countries which have conjured up ideological theories about us; let us tell them that we shall never attempt to impose our system and our way of life on anyone, but that neither shall we tolerate that a regime based on force, and which seeks to develop, should impose on us, and on the peoples who are united to us by the sacred bonds of the Charter, a concept of life which destroys human dignity and bases the structure of society on the play of blind forces or on the material imposition of power. And above all, let us avail ourselves of this moment to define that juridical position in which we can exert all our strength in favour of peace.
168.	Let us have faith in our mission; let us have faith in that mission which is to support, encourage, and endorse by the verdict of humanity, the efforts which have been made to give effect to the Charter and to respect the territorial integrity of nations which have been subjected to force, efforts which have to some extent been given universal sanction. And let our attitude serve to encourage us to accept future sacrifices, with the conviction that in fighting for the rights of each nation, we are fighting for universal peace, because there can be no peace without justice.


===== Session 06 - 1951 =====
This meeting of our Assembly is faced with an inescapable fact: the grave tension and the anxiety bordering on despair which were a feature of the time when we condemned the attitude adopted by communist China have gradually decreased and have given place to a measure of calm and a ray of optimism.
61.	What are the causes of this change? For a full appraisal of its functions, the Assembly must realize the moral factors at its command. Let me indicate quite dispassionately the various reasons for this change for the better in public opinion, although I am not unduly optimistic, since there has been no change in the points of view expressed nor, unfortunately, has the acrimonious tone of the debates lessened in any degree.
62.	We must take account of one decisive factor: the steadfast and heroic resistance which United Nations forces have offered to aggression. We still lack the necessary historical perspective which would enable us to appreciate in its full and admirable significance the resistance of the United Nations to aggression in Korea. That resistance has proved decisively that the United Nations is a living force. We have succeeded in meeting an unexpected attack, by steadfast opposition in the cause of justice and law, and this resistance has prevented war from spreading to other areas included in the plan of aggression, has strengthened the hopes of all nations and, finally, has consolidated the life of our Organization. An interesting feature of this resistance, however, is its nature, moderation and limited character. Resistance was confined to precise objectives. Disregarding schemes and illusions of intensified action, we restricted ourselves to the defence of Korea and withstood the other aggression which followed later, when our task seemed to have come to an end. Such moderation, such limitation of our objectives had the great advantage of winning for us the moral approval of the world and of giving the Asian world proof of the uprightness of our intentions and of the just scope of our purposes.
63.	There is another factor which must be borne in mind. The problem of Korea awakened in all nations the conviction, which hitherto perhaps had only been present in latent form, that peace is indivisible and that all the world’s economic, military and moral forces must be mobilized to halt aggression. Giving expression to this universal belief, the United Nations decided to overcome the obstacle of the veto and approved the resolution [377 A (V)] establishing in effect the general mobilization of all nations to combat aggression. This conviction clearly constitutes a highly important moral factor in the interests of peace since, whatever may be said and despite all rhetorical utterances, the indisputable fact remains that mankind is aware today that universal co-operation is essential in order to prevent aggression.
64.	In this perhaps rather weighty study which some might think technical rather than diplomatic, I must refer to progress in the technical sphere which has also proved a factor favourable to peace. From what I have been able to note the public has the impression that technical progress affords an opportunity of creating a proper balance between the forces working for peace at less cost, through superiority in the quality of certain weapons rather than through superiority in numbers. This idea leads to another concept of equal value since, instead of an armaments race, which would defeat the very purpose it is intended to achieve, it points to a possibility of reducing armaments to the level required for the defence of each country and the maintenance of internal order.
65.	Nuclear energy seems to have passed from the catastrophic to the defensive stage, and we hope it will soon reach its definitive stage, when it will be employed industrially. In any case, the proposal has been made here either for control of atomic energy or for its prohibition. However, inspection is essential to secure either object, In the absence of inspection fully and completely guaranteed, control or prohibition would be a meaningless term.
66.	Finally, there is a moral factor : the cold war, the subversive war, the threat of the use of destructive weapons, and a sort of war or pre-war psychosis attended by actual war in various parts of the world. Economic aimlessness and disorganization throughout the world have produced a great weariness, a distressing situation. Among all men, and everywhere there is a yearning for peace and a desire for some course of action which would restore economic and spiritual health to an exhausted, bewildered and irresolute Europe.
67.	We are well aware that this peace cannot be achieved by purely verbal or rhetorical efforts. No one believes in the peace offensive which is only aimed at weakening resistance, at impairing the spirit of self-preservation and at hampering the will for justice. There is, however, in all nations — and I might even say also in the Soviet mind, in the common or average man of that vast country — the desire for a real peace based on the readjustment of economic, political and military interests and inspired by the most cordial and human understanding.
68.	President Auriol has given expression here [333rd meeting], with that eloquence and distinction which are characteristic of the French language, to that peace which is desired by all peoples of the world and particularly the peoples of Spanish America, with their deep attachment to peace and international justice.
69.	We possess here, in spite of the acrimonious and harsh note of our discussions, these moral assets and these moral factors. What must we do? The weight of these moral factors imposes a clear policy upon the United Nations Assembly: in the first place, to combine and focus this longing of all peoples and to make of this rostrum the great instrument, not of the selfish propaganda of any one country but of the desire for peace of the whole world. May this spirit preside also over our discussions in committee and may we renounce strident and contradictory monologues and engage more happily in constructive, harmonious and fruitful conversations.
70.	We have affirmed that peace is indivisible and that aggression can only be restrained by universal co-operation. However, we still have to implement these declarations of principle. The Assembly must lay down that its first task is to give effect and practical meaning to the resolution [377 (U] “ Uniting for Peace ” ; each country, according to its economic and political situation, its military strength and military traditions and its geographical position, must assume the obligations incumbent upon it.
71.	There is another point which is also of great importance; I refer to regional agreements. It is gratifying that the United Kingdom Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, speaking with the authority of that great nation, has set forth in this hall the doctrine of these regional agreements; the North Atlantic Treaty is entirely in keeping with the spirit and the letter of the Charter.
72.	The Peruvian delegation recalls with satisfaction that it was the first, in that memorable meeting of 13 April 1943, to defend the rightfulness, the legality and the constitutional meaning of the North Atlantic Treaty. We peoples of Latin America cannot but see with profound satisfaction the reconstitution of Europe. I venture to say from this rostrum that a united America would greet with enthusiasm a united Europe, since in the last analysis Europe, which is the spiritual mother of America, has always been spiritually united. There may have been wars and conflicts; nevertheless, certain general principles of civilization have been upheld.
73.	Let me recall now that symbolic tripod referred to in the famous conversation between Renan and Mommsen, in which Germanic, Anglo-Saxon and Latin culture are integrated. The tragedy of the world is precisely due to the fact that this moral and cultural unity of Europe was not accompanied by a unity based on economic co-operation and international harmony. We feel very deeply that the tragedy of the present time is the result of the disruption of the European soul, and consequently that the revival of Europe, the affirmation of Europe, the assertion of its need to live and to play again the part it formerly played in human destinies will furnish the key and, more effectively perhaps than any other factor, provide a solution to the problem.
74.	Thus, in the enthusiasm of this profound conviction, I pay homage to the eminent figures of Winston Churchill, who was the first to advocate European unity when the symptoms of this crisis first appeared, and of Robert Schuman, who submitted practical measures to achieve such unity. Germany and Austria must be called upon to play a part in this movement, in the spirit of Leibnitz, Goethe and Kant: of Leibnitz, who proposed to Bossuet — to our Bossuet I hope my French friends will permit me to say — the religious unification of Europe as a basis for a new legal order; of Goethe, whose Germanic vitalism and romanticism bring to us the breath of the latinized and catholic Rhine; and of Kant, who represented the last endeavour to reconcile philosophy with the Christian sentiment of life and who bears the stamp of Christian philosophy in contrast with the dissolvent philosophies that followed, Hegel’s belief in the absolute power of the State and the materialism of Marx.
75.	What has the USSR to fear from this unity of Europe, established solely for defence, united solely by moral, intellectual and esthetic factors which always work for peace? If such a glorious and harmonious result were achieved no one would think of denying the Soviet Union a place in that comity of nations. Remember that it was the western countries that discovered the admirable art of Russia and its no less admirable literature. Are we not aware and is it not our duty to proclaim here that, in spite of many difficulties and many conflicts, centuries of Christian culture must continue to influence the Russian mind ?
76.	I now turn to a point which is not strictly of a moral and political nature, but rather of a legal character, which I submit to the serious attention of my colleagues. We cannot deny that our Charter suffers from very serious faults. We know only too well that the revision of the Charter is impossible in the light of the Article of which we are all aware. However, even if that is so, the obscure parts of the Charter may be interpreted and, where it is defective, it may be supplemented. Teachers of law know that law is essentially dynamic and that a static and dead concept of law cannot be maintained in view of world events.
77,	Our Charter must be interpreted or supplemented in the same way as pretorian law interpreted and supplemented the old Roman Law. We must remedy the defects of the Charter by employing the methods that led to the evolution of Roman Law. The principal fault of the Charter has resided in the veto. That is a fact which must be stated categorically, since an absurd and unacceptable interpretation has been given to the rule of unanimity which we approved in San Francisco. It has been interpreted as giving all the great Powers the privilege of evading the issue or of avoiding the search for a joint solution by taking up at the outset an unyielding attitude or by violating the principles of the Charter, This absolute veto frequently results not in a choice between two legitimate lines of action under the Charter, but in a country adopting a course at variance with the spirit and the letter of that instrument. That is a position we cannot accept. The veto in itself is open to criticism, but the veto interpreted as a method to which a Power may arbitrarily have recourse in order to violate the Charter while actually invoking the Charter itself, is a monstrous thing which must be rejected by all the legal minds of the World.
78,	The application of this principle has been clearly demonstrated in the question of the admission of new Members. Three States are awaiting a resolution by the United Nations. Clearly, that resolution has been delayed for reasons that are mainly political, and the political criterion applied to the admission of new Members is bound to call forth a protest from those who, in San Francisco, believed that they had established, not an alliance or a league of countries on the old model, but a universal organization. I ask my colleagues who were present at San Francisco and I even ask those colleagues who represent the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics what it was that we established in San Francisco, Was it a political league in which membership depends on the sympathy or the arbitrary acquiescence of existing members in regard to application for membership? Or did we found an international order ?
79.	I am sure that no one who was present at San Francisco could rise in this Assembly and say that we established there a league and not an organization. We established a universal juridical order to which every State should belong by natural law, in the same way as every human being belongs to the civil order by that same natural law.
80.	Consequently, States have the right to enter the Organization once they have fulfilled the objective conditions laid down in the Charter of being peace-loving and of accepting their international obligations. The Organization passes a judgment, and does not give an opinion, on these objective conditions; and since the days of Greece and Aristotle’s logic, we know that there is a difference between opinion, which is arbitrary in nature, and judgment, which must be based on definite grounds. We must pass a judgment based on these conditions which are laid down in the Charter.
81.	Consequently we cannot recognize any discretionary power, since if we did so we would become a league. On that point the International Court of Justice has endorsed the views of those who upheld the universal character of the Organization. The International Court of Justice has stated that the power of the Assembly and of the Council is not a discretionary power, that it is unrelated to raison d'état, and that it is not a matter of private judgment for which no reason or explanation need be given. It is in fact a regulated power which is exercised in the manner stipulated in the Charter. If that is the case, then, we need to establish a new jurisprudence. We must establish, for the admission of new Members, a new procedure in conformity with the spirit as well as the letter of the Charter. I am not referring to any country in particular, for I look at the Organization from a universal point of view. I refer to the three States that favour the western nations and to those that may favour the Soviet bloc. They must all have the right to backing in their request for admission. Nay, more, they must be invited by the General Assembly to adhere to the peace pacts that have been concluded, and to subscribe to conventions on outstanding international matters, as evidence of their compliance with the provisions of the Charter.
82.	Then the General Assembly, being in possession of such documents and in the exercise of its functions under Article 10, would recommend to the Council, in accordance with its duty, the juridical study of the documents submitted. The Council would then have to distinguish between votes cast in accordance with the objective provisions of the Charter and those based on international grounds outside the scope of the Charter.
83.	Who then could maintain that a single subjective, personal and arbitrary vote could prevail against the opinion of the majority — the overwhelming majority — based on documentation submitted in accordance with the spirit and letter of the Charter? To admit that such a vote could prevail would be tantamount to enabling a country to exercise a function which, even though exercised by all, would still be null and void, because it would run counter to the spirit and letter of the Charter.
84.	How could we call ourselves a universal institution if we exclude Italy, the heir of Rome, which was the supreme master of juridical universality? How could we call ourselves a universal institution if we excluded the Iberian peoples who, heroically and after fantastic voyages, discovered new worlds and founded new countries which are now represented here? How could we call ourselves a universal institution if we excluded Ireland, whose sons are scattered in all parts of the world and who are a source of strength in the field of labour and culture in the United States of America, Canada, Australia, South Africa and New Zealand? Ideals, moral aspirations, and even noble enthusiasm, are here in harmony with the principles of justice.
85.	The Peruvian delegation puts forward its proposal boldly and with conviction, and affirms that other attitudes are contrary to the spirit of the San Francisco Conference and to the universal conception of the organization set up at that historical moment.
86.	There are other problems which it is not for me to raise here but I say, with a certain anxiety, that the problems with which this Assembly will have to deal, or at least some of them, are difficult in the extreme. I am not afraid of a problem when the conflict is between a principle and a particular interest. The problems that are truly tragic for any thoughtful mind and upright spirit are those in which there is a conflict between two equally valid and worthy principles that, nevertheless, paradoxically find opposing expression in practice.
87.	Respect for the sovereignty of States and for self-determination is incontestable; but it is also unquestionable that one of the bases of the United Nations is collective security and that such security is not only a good thing for all, but frequently for the countries that might be particularly affected.
88.	I recall an idea expressed by the eminent American statesman, Elihu Root, who said that for every problem, however difficult it be, there is always an underlying solution, not at first apparent, but which has to be found by laborious and patient effort. And when in good faith that solution is found there is neither victor nor vanquished, but only a triumph of truth, justice and equity. Following the thought of so matter-of-fact and practical a man as Root, I would go somewhat further in an ethical sense : nothing is invincible for this magical association of the uprightness which leads us to God and the goodwill and charity which it is our duty to show to all nations and to all men.
89.	I am encouraged by the thought that this Assembly is being held in the cultural atmosphere of France. The praises of the French people have been sung here. I shall modestly confine myself to saying that when we feel the difficulties are insuperable, we should turn our minds to the spirit of immortal France, seek its characteristic qualities that have been forged out of its scholastic and Cartesian experiences, and find in them the light and inspiration for the solution of our problems. Thus under God’s protection, under the protection of the mark of humanity and keeping pace with the noble inspirations of the French people, let us work with daring and with faith for a peace based on justice and love.


===== Session 07 - 1952 =====
The sixth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations refrained from discussing the subject of Korea, in order that a political debate should not interfere with the course of the armistice negotiations, which were to be based solely on humanitarian principles. The lack of agreement among the representatives of the United Command in the armistice negotiations has proved that other factors have influenced the situation, which we have been watching so anxiously, like all the peoples whose only concern and aim is peace. I do not wish to attempt to analyse those factors, because it is not my delegation’s purpose to aggravate the difficulties, or introduce a note of discouragement and disappointment into this debate. What matters now is to make one more effort towards success in the armistice negotiations or, if that is not possible, to provide a true picture of the facts of the situation, without any ambiguity or any attempt at misleading propaganda. It seemed that final agreement had been reached, the only question outstanding being that of the prisoners. The serious problem which arose was that a considerable number of these did not wish to return to the side from which they had come, and this revealed a new and exceptional situation, to which it would have been wrong to apply the ordinary principles, for that would have imposed upon free human beings a fate which they rejected, for reasons or motives of which they alone could be the judges. The fundamental principle in this matter must be respect for the human person and his right to free choice in the matter of his own destiny.
2.	One great American country, Mexico, inspired by these ideas and anxious to offer a practical solution, has approached the Unified Command, stating that prisoners are not , a collective mass to be disposed of arbitrarily, and that countries which are prepared to do so should be given the opportunity to receive prisoners who do not wish to return to their countries of origin. It is true that very serious difficulties may arise for many countries — perhaps even for the majority — in adopting the generous attitude which the Mexican proposal invites us to take. In any case the principle of respect for the prisoners’ wishes has been eloquently formulated by a power which represents the feelings of the small and medium-sized countries, whose role is to be the spokesmen of impartial opinion throughout the world. In this spirit, may it not be our duty to use our imagination to find plans which might improve the Mexican proposal or replace it if it is found impracticable? The fate of the prisoners, by virtue of their supreme value as human beings, concerns not only the military authorities and the parties concerned but all mankind.
3.	The United Nations, though it is hot a world State, represents and personifies not only a high moral authority for the world but also a high legal and political authority. Exercising this moral authority, the United Nations could declare that prisoners of war who did riot wish to be repatriated were under its protection and safeguard. As a logical consequence of such a declaration, an international commission could he appointed which would include the parties, States which had the confidence of the Assembly and, as a guarantee of greater impartiality, neutral States, not Members of the United Nations, which, by virtue of their culture and their services to peace and humanitarian causes, would by their presence and co-operation lend weight to our noble undertaking.
4.	Without making a formal and definite proposal, I leave this point for the Assembly to ponder and act upon in due course. Such a commission, in its wisdom, might perhaps be able to find means of establishing these prisoners in an appropriate zone under the safeguard of rules based on the Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and incorporating all the relevant provisions of the Geneva Convention of 1949.
5.	We invite the representatives of the Soviet Union to consider this or any other suggestions which may be put forward with open-mindedness, and thus give real proof of their peaceful intentions.
6.	The Peruvian delegation, interpreting a general desire, presented to the sixth session, of the General Assembly a draft resolution which was adopted [resolution 506 (VI)] by the considerable majority of 43 votes to 8, with 7 abstentions, recommending that the Security Council should consider the applications for membership of the Organization individually, taking into account only the principles of Article 4 of the Charter and the evidence of their peace-loving nature and fulfilment of international obligations. The Assembly, exercising its legitimate prerogative, reminded the Security Council that the admission of new Members was a very important function, It adopted the interpretation of the Charter given by the International Court of Justice, according to which a Member of the United Nations cannot lawfully make its assent to the admission of new Members dependent upon conditions not expressly set forth in Article 4, paragraph 1, of the Charter. It is clear that since the General Assembly adopted the resolution [296 (IV)] founded in law on the advisory opinion to which I have referred, Members of the United Nations may not adduce political reasons of a strictly internal character and purely subjective reasons which contradict opinions they have themselves emitted concerning the conditions governing the admission of new Members to the United Nations.
7.	We have never denied the Soviet Union its right to analyse the objective qualities and study the international behaviour of each candidate, and to base its vote upon the security which the candidate country can offer for the fulfilment of its obligations under the Charter. Objections by the USSR related to these objective standards would have to be respected. Rut that does not apply to candidates such as Italy, Portugal, Ireland and certain other countries, for the Soviet Union has recognized them as peace-loving States and has not contested their capacity or fitness for fulfilling the obligations of the Charter. This attitude of the Soviet Union therefore confronts us with a serious legal and philosophical problem, and I ask the Assembly to give its attention to this difficult but most important matter.
8.	In legal logic, any decision by a judge, a member of a parliament or any other authority postulates a judgment, and the decision — an act of the will — should follow the judgment — an act of the intellect — as shadow follows substance, as effect follows cause, or as matter follows form. Once the judgment, the intellectual process, has been completed, the ensuing decision must conform to it entirely. To admit that the decision, that is to say, the will, may be separate from the judgment is to grant to the will an extra-legal value, an absolute quality — to assume that the will is entitled to operate above and beyond the law.
9.	We have a Charter and therefore a standard. Within the spirit of the Charter and by the application of this standard, the Soviet Union has recognized that certain countries possess the qualifications for admission to the United Nations; but then, at the time of voting, it invokes an arbitrary power, a power above and beyond the Charter, and says: I have the power to annul by the veto the very rights which I have recognized. We cannot accept this philosophical monstrosity, which combines a flagrant violation of the Charter, disregard of the advisory opinion of the Court, and a refusal to accept the interpretation of the Charter given by an overwhelming majority of the Assembly. Our question is this; can the veto have an extra-legal and an anti-legal nature? Was that the veto we approved at San Francisco? I maintain that the unanimity rule which we accepted at San Francisco, as a compulsory concession to save the Charter, did not invest the veto with this privilege, this absolute and inconceivable right, to violate or paralyse the Charter. The speeches made at San Francisco by those who opposed the veto in the general — the very general — discussions, turned the proposed liberum veto into the obligation to seek unanimity, to find agreed solutions whereby the antagonisms resulting from opposing points of view would be overcome. If solutions were not found after they had been sought in complete good faith, the proper course was to take note of the conflict between equally lawful alternatives. I draw the Assembly’s attention to this essential point. The disagreements made manifest by the rule of unanimity of the great Powers, and which might rightfully paralyse a decision, must take the form of legitimate alternatives, none of which involved a violation of the Charter. Otherwise the Charter signed at San Francisco would have been an illogical and monstrous document, because it would have given a single Power not only the right to paralyse the will of the majority, but also the more serious right completely to nullify the provisions of the Charter and turn it into a scrap of paper.
10.	It will be said that this conception of the lawfulness of the veto is incompatible with the very idea of the veto. To be sure, it is incompatible with the idea of the veto as developed by the USSR and with the use that Power wishes to make of the veto; but it is incompatible neither with the letter of the Charter nor, above all, with the background of the discussion on this important matter, nor, I might add — and I shall prove this when the occasion arises — with the precedent established by the Assembly in approving the resolution [377 (V)] entitled “Uniting for peace”, which for all practical purposes precludes or annuls a veto intended to paralyse the supreme function of the United Nations, that of chastising aggression. A veto intended to paralyse the Assembly’s essential function of admitting new Members may be set aside and annulled in the same way.
11.	I am well aware that the Charter can be modified only in accordance with the principles which the Charter itself has laid down. What is now needed is to prevent an unduly broad and wrongful interpretation of the veto. We merely ask whether a use of the veto in flagrant violation of the Charter is admissible. That is the question which the Assembly has to decide. We have given the Security Council a final opportunity to apply strictly the principles of the Charter within the official interpretation given by the Assembly on the basis of the authorized opinion of the Court. In view of the rebellion of the USSR against this lawful interpretation given by the Assembly, that body has a perfect right to judge, appraise and examine the voting in the Security Council, and to consider whether or not there has been the majority required for the function which that organ has to fulfil in respect of the admission of new Members.
12.	It will be objected that the Assembly has no power to interpret she Charter. I should like to ask this question: if the Assembly has no power to interpret the Charter, what other method of interpretation do we possess ?. The Security Council is an organ intended to perform specific tasks entrusted to it by the signatories to the Charter. Are not all the signatories to the Charter represented in the Assembly, together with the countries which have subsequently acceded to it? The dilemma with which we are confronted is a very clear one: either we forego any interpretation in the face of the present difficulties, and announce that in certain cases the Charter cannot be applied, that the Charter is useless, that the Charter is, inoperative, thus paralysing international-life in one of its most interesting aspects, namely, the achievement of the ideal or universality; or we agree that there is a body which is able, after consulting the principal judicial organ of the United Nations, to interpret the Charter, and that this body is the Assembly. The Assembly's renunciation of any right to interpret the Charter would constitute the capitis diminutio maxima of this institution, decreed by itself; it would be an inconceivable abdication, a case of spontaneous amputation contrary to nature, an admission of legal impotence contravening the letter and the spirit of the Charter and the dictates of the conscience of mankind. The Peruvian delegation reserves the right to present in due course a proposal to enable the Assembly to resolve this grave problem which is compromising our effectiveness and our prestige throughout the world.
13.	By way of compensation for the tragedy of suffering and blood brought about by the war in Asia, we have had an eloquent proof of deep human solidarity. Not only through the shortening of distances by technical means but also, and much more, through the intensity and universality of human feeling, the distant war in Korea has had profound repercussions, not only in Asia but also in the western countries and here in America. There has been a general realization that we live in a single world in which good and evil are not to be found in one area or in one form alone, but are shared by the whole of humanity. This is a psychological and moral factor of incalculable moment. It was in that spirit that the United Nations voted unanimously — for one cannot take into account the exception represented by the satellites of the Soviet Union — for the condemnation of aggression, and have repeatedly expressed their desire for a cessation of hostilities and peace. This unity has constituted an element whose importance it will be possible to assess only in better historical perspective. But as life goes on, and when events are complicated, such unity is relaxed and jeopardized. It is not for me to investigate here the circumstances conspiring against unity; I must point out, however, that the effectiveness of the United Nations in dealing with the problems before it and its prestige depend on the careful maintenance of this unity. The Western Powers, the American peoples, the nations of Asia, Africa and Oceania must march together in agreement, because this agreement is the basis of our existence, indeed, of our salvation. I do not believe that there are abysmal divergences or insoluble difficulties between the Western Powers and the peoples who have passed from colonial status to freedom with the help, approval and support of those very Powers.
14.	We Latin-American nations are in a peculiar situation. We are united with the Western Powers by the same conception of life, the same conception of justice and the same unflinching attachment to liberty. We are united with the peoples of other continents by the fraternity which springs from the fact that we had preceded them op the path of independence, and by the economic situation, which calls for our further development and for the achievement of our independence and full individuality in this field. We are thus in a good position to act as a sort of living link between the old Europe, which is once more reviving and asserting itself, uniting and becoming an integral whole amid our applause and our hopes,, and the peoples who, like ourselves, are anxious to see the full accomplishment of their destiny. We are confident that a united Europe will pursue its defensive policy as part of a wide and generous international co-operation; and we say to our brothers in Asia, Africa and Oceania who have followed us on the road to freedom that in the United Nations and in a broad co-operation with us they have full scope for achieving their aspirations and for making possible a common understanding with the European countries; and that any other policy would divert them from what is clearly their destiny and would launch them upon courses that would endanger not only their economic resources but also their own political independence.
15.	Various delegations have eloquently presented here the staggering figures, arrived at by authorized technical commissions, depicting for us the poverty in which the majority of the inhabitants of this planet live. This accurate and impressive picture makes us think of the immense riches expended or destroyed in the two world wars and of those that have to be employed in avoiding a third war. The calculations of eminent economists have shown that the capital consumed in the last wars would have been sufficient to transform the economic face of the world. Today we are further than ever from the economic interpretation of history, which attributes the tragedy of war to mere economic, or commercial interests. Peace furthers not only the moral interests of humanity but also its actual profit, its actual material well-being. War has always had psychological causes. Man’s greatness lies in culture, and his supreme misfortune is the will to power, the overmastering usurpation described in immortal terms by St. Augustine in The City of God. This spirit of overmastering usurpation has exploited the infinite capacity of the masses for absorbing myths and for suffering oppression.
16.	Peoples who are both the victims of illusion and oppressed, have inevitable pursued the disastrous course of endeavouring to impose their illusions and their oppression to other peoples. That is the sad lessen of history. The efforts of the creators of science, who have not only enabled us to control nature but have also taught us the immense value of truth as against myth and illusion, have been of no avail. The noble doctrines of the founders of religions, all of whom have preached the brotherhood of man, have been powerless. These two bright aspects of human history have been overshadowed, as by an ever-present menace, deepening and spreading day by day, by the will to power. The philosophy of culture leads us to a pessimistic conclusion; and yet we ask: can we not hope that truth which is modest, verifiable, progressive and relative, which seeks and comprehends the views of others and desires their co-operation, will overcome the fitful, hallucinatory, infectious gleam of myth and utopia? Can we not hope that the sense of human brotherhood which must have been stimulated by the sorrows, anxieties and anguish that are suffered today by all the peoples of the earth alike, will prevail and restrain or quench the thirst for domination and the invincible passion for power of the inters of certain States? But I do not wish to conclude these sincere remarks upon a note of philosophic pessimism.
17. I know that the students of Marxist philosophy have discovered that its essence lies in the ideal or dream of the complete disappearance of the State in an earthly paradise, that this goal can be reached only by passing through an arduous stage in which all the powers of the present State, which covers every aspect of human life, are strengthened, and that only after the destruction of the so-called exploiting class in the country concerned and in other countries will it be possible to attain to the ideal of a free mankind with the complete elimination of the State. That conception leads logically to universal war, through universal revolution.
18.	Today, however, contrary to the conclusions of students of Marxist philosophy, the most highly placed persons of the USSR have affirmed at the Moscow Congress the possibility of the coexistence of capitalism and communism, and here, from this very rostrum, the eminent representative of the Soviet Union has, with his customary eloquence, referred to and endorsed [383rd meeting] this idea of possible coexistence, supporting it with quotations from his masters, Stalin and Lenin. Let us hope that these declarations will prevail over the pessimistic conclusions of the students of Marxist philosophy to which I have just referred. In all impartiality, let us bear in mind the favourable factors that exist: the realism — which I recognize and have always recognized — demonstrated by the leaders of the Soviet Union on more than one occasion and their full appreciation of all the factors in determining their course of action. The leaders of the Soviet Union today realize that the West is able, alert and determined to defend itself and that a war would not be a triumphal march, but the beginning of universal destruction.
19.	There is another factor which we must also bear in mind: the Russian people have behind them more than a thousand years of Christian tradition which cannot be obliterated by any regime, however great its political influence; and we cherish the hope that this deal of understanding, peace and brotherhood may inspire broad sections of the Russian people, coinciding with the realistic policy which their leaders must now pursue. In any case, we shall not close our ears or our hearts to any sincere initiative for peace or any opportunity for agreement.


===== Session 08 - 1953 =====
27.	I wish to say, on behalf of the delegation and the Government of Peru, that the election of Mrs. Pandit as President of the Assembly meets our desire to pay tribute to her great qualities of statemanship and diplomacy and to recognize the immense services rendered by India to the cause of peace. May I add the hope that the harshness that is sometimes unavoidable in our debates, and often cannot be controlled by technical rules of procedure alone, may be moderated by her feminine grace and intuition.
28.	The Assembly begins _ its eighth session at a crucial moment for humanity. The cease-fire which we proposed as far back as January 1951 has been achieved by the signing of the armistice, with its threefold significance: the halting of aggression, the affirmation of the legal and moral personality of the United Nations and the triumph of two legal principles —  collective security and the voluntary repatriation of prisoners of war. The way to a final peace settlement is open. Peace does not depend only on legal technicalities and political adjustments. Peace is the work of goodwill and realistic and accurate understanding of the sacred interests and vital needs of all peoples.
29.	Let us pause a moment to examine the causes of this new situation. Intensive rearmament could not have been carried out without endangering the economy of the Soviet countries. Stalin’s illusion — expressed by Mr. Malenkov himself in his speech of 6 October 1952, that the policy of strengthening the Soviet Union would continue its triumphant course while the attempt by the other Powers to imitate it would exacerbate the inherent contradictions of capitalism and consequently precipitate its bankruptcy — has been dispelled by the facts. Within a few months of that speech the words of the Soviet leader himself and his new economic policy proved that rearmament had had repercussions on the economy of the USSR and of the countries under its influence. This has been, and remains, a favourable factor for the initiation of peace moves, but such moves must have practical aims and precise objectives.
30.	The first of them is Korea, which is today the symbol of collective security and of equilibrium and tranquillity in Asia. The artificial division of Korea meant the sacrifice of that noble people, with its age-old unity and culture, to the imperialist and hostile will of the communist Government of the USSR. That mistake must now be remedied. Profound resentment against China is appearing among the people of North Korea; more than 4 million North Koreans have crossed the artificial frontier which divides Korea. More than two-thirds of the population are concentrated in South Korea, but the resources and industrial plant are in the North. The disintegration of Korea cannot continue. The work of economic rehabilitation is urgent and cannot be postponed. It would be unwise to make the provision of measures which are immediately needed for the deliverance of the inhabitants of both North and South, who have suffered the scourge of three years of war, dependent upon the solution of problems of a political nature. This is a field which offers ample opportunity for effective and generous co-operation, which would, moreover, make the political solutions easier.
31.	In 1947, in connexion with the dispute between Thailand and France, the mixed conciliation commission, under the chairmanship of Mr. Phillips, former United States Ambassador, stressed the right of Laos and Cambodia to self-government. France declared those ancient kingdoms to be Associated States of the French Union, as it had done in the case of Viet-Nam. It has now completed its work by the declaration of 3 July 1953 recognizing their independence. The three countries have asked for admission into the United Nations and the majority of the Assembly recommended their admission, thus recognizing their full sovereignty. With his acknowledged authority, Mr. Dulles, the United States Secretary of State, has declared that the independence of these nations is seriously threatened by the Vietminh forces, supported by the communist bloc.
32.	Peace is indivisible. The armistice and the negotiations to obtain peace in Korea should be followed by the conclusion of the war in Indo-China, if there is goodwill on the part of the communist bloc. With Korea in the hands of that bloc and a similar situation in Indo-China, not only would the liberty of the countries directly concerned be endangered but it would mean a threat to the whole of Asia. An imperialist attitude cannot halt, but gains uncontrollable momentum. We know that the Asian countries would oppose the hostile forces with those priceless weapons, their nationality and their culture. We have already said that the great force which has prevented the expansion of communism in Asia has been the spirituality of the culture and civilization of India. But the struggle would be unequal and terrible.
33.	The expansion of communism having being halted on the line from Stettin to the Adriatic the Communists hoped, in return, to achieve domination of Asia and the hegemony of the Pacific Ocean, thus directly threatening the security of the American continent. What I am saying is not a product of the imagination but the result of an objective analysis of geographic, economic and political factors. In spite of the contrast between the venerable antiquity of the Asian world and the vigorous youth of the American world, there have been mysterious links between these two continents. The most probable explanation is that American man is descended from Asian man. There have been noteworthy similarities between the paternal government of the Incas and the tutelary systems of China. In the Iberian Peninsula, the source from which Latin-American culture stems, the Arabs left their blood, their science, their culture, and what they passed on to us from Greece. Stronger yet than these historic and ethnic links is the bond forged between these two groups of peoples by their glorious struggle for liberty. In their community of destiny, the peoples of America greeted with enthusiasm the achievement of liberty and democracy among their distant brothers in Asia.
34.	Liberty is beset by dangers and pitfalls. Our fathers won it in difficult times, when England and Spain were united in the Napoleonic wars and American diplomacy was to a certain extent paralysed. Thus Bolivar was able to say that we won our independence against the will of the universe. But in consolidating it when the plans of the Holy Alliance were encircling us, we had the support of British policy and the Monroe Doctrine in its original form.
35.	What dangers threaten the liberty of the Asian peoples today? Mr. Zafrulla Khan, the representative of Pakistan, reminded us a few days ago [437th meeting] of the admirable policy of the United Kingdom in replacing the old dependence of the Asian countries by moral and economic links on a basis of honour and equality. We welcomed the independence of Indo-China and we have faith that France will fulfil its promises and the recommendations of the United Nations.
36.	Given the moral state of the world and the very fact of national diversification, and given the vast influence of ideological factors transformed today into spiritual realities, the danger facing the Asian countries is not in the West and cannot be. The great American Power which is fated to play a decisive part in the present period of history has had and still has that distinguishing trait which the intuition and prophetic genius of de Tocqueville revealed: the dominion over nature, in contrast with the conquest of man which de Tocqueville attributed to czarist Russia and which was destined to confront the colossus of the New World in an impressive parallel. Since the two world wars the United States has confirmed its influence but has been able to boast, with reason, that it has never made any territorial gain or sought such gain. Its Asian policy has been one of assistance and co-operation and is one of the most brilliant pages of contemporary history.
37.	Legitimate economic interests, a sensible and realistic policy and, above all, a lofty spiritual attitude under the aegis of the United Nations, make it impossible to adopt any other policy than that of absolute respect for the independence of the African, Arabic and Asian countries and of cultural and economic co-operation.
38.	The same cannot be said of the Soviet Union. As proof of this the immediate example of Korea and Indo-China would suffice, if we had not before us the tremendous lesson of the Soviet advance into Europe; that advance seemed to have fulfilled, in 1947, Engels’ prophecy in which he depicted the expansion of Russia towards the Balkans and the occupation of Vienna and Budapest. We do not say this in any spirit of reproach; on the contrary, we say it with the sadness of one who contemplates the movements of history, which sometimes resemble natural disasters by reason of their torrential and uncontrollable nature.
39.	I have no right to condemn the Soviet Union to the sad destiny of the conquest of man in accordance with de Tocqueville’s characterization. I would like to rectify that and to seek in some aspects of modern Russia points to support my idea. The abolition of illiteracy, the intensive industrialization of a mainly agricultural country, the use of all types of techniques, including even the recent nuclear discoveries — these are factors to enable a people of undeniable genius such as the Russian people to replace the conquest of man by the conquest of nature. That is our deliberate illusion, which we wish to transform into a hope. Moreover, we have referred on numerous occasions to the realism of the Soviet leaders. If aggression costs so much, if military development and territorial expansion end by destroying the delicate structure of science and economy, if the Soviet people do not enjoy the standards of living which could have been attained had it not been for rearmament and for a policy of prepotency — if all those ideas were to pass from the minds of the leaders to the Soviet people, tow spontaneously and eagerly the people would receive them, impelled thereto by their aesthetic and humanitarian sentiments! Unfortunately, the policy of force produces an intoxication from which awakening can only come through the counterblows of force itself, and it can only be contained by tenacious and effective resistance. It is not sufficient for us to offer the USSR, as we do, our eager will for peace. Given communist psychology and the force of certain social movements, we have to adopt, both in Asia and in Europe, a policy of defence and struggle, without animosity and even for the benefit of the Soviet Union itself.
40.	That policy of energetic and peaceful resistance finds its expression in the Old World in the unity of Europe. Europe has been and is a cultural unity; its tragedy has been that it has not been able to form a political unity. The progress of democracy in the world, and the economic and technical development which marked the beginning of the present age, at the clos° of the eighteenth century, determined a historic destiny: the consolidation of the American federation. The peace of the world and the preservation of Western culture demand European union. It will represent a balancing principle guaranteeing the independence and integrity of all its elements. It will also constitute an example for the Soviet Union and an instrument for co-operation with the Eastern countries, within the framework of the United Nations, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany himself thinks. The economic oases, the political standards and the military commitments of that union are exclusively the concern of the European countries, but they must be ‘viewed with profound interest and sympathy by the United Nations. It is essential that a unified Germany should form part of this union, which further requires a peace with Austria which will guarantee Austrian independence. The Latin peoples see in Austria an admirable synthesis of Germanic civilization and Mediterranean culture.
41.	The Peruvian delegation would like to give a brief sketch of its views on the world economic situation. The Secretary-General’s annual report [A/2404] draws attention to the first trends towards a decline in economic activity. Stocks appear to have accumulated disproportionately to effective demand, and there is a danger, however remote, of a general reduction in economic activity. The following problems of interest to small countries should be stressed: first, the maintenance of economic stability with the same high levels of employment, production and consumption ; secondly, the persistent imbalance of international payments, which seems to be of a structural nature and which causes the almost chronic deficit in balances of payments; thirdly, the slow progress of the economies of the under-developed countries, which must be accelerated if the living standards of their peoples are to be raised.
42.	Repeating ideas already expressed in the Economic and Social Council and in Committees of the Assembly, we stress the importance, in our view, of joint action in technical assistance and the financing of economic development^ which should not exclude any means: national, foreign or international capital, public, private or mixed capital — all are equally necessary for the development of a country like Peru.
43.	My delegation considers that the publication of the report [E/2281] submitted by the experts called upon to express their opinion on the establishment of a special United Nations fund for economic development represents an important step. Despite the pressing urgency of this problem we cannot ignore the domestic situation of the States which will contribute to the fund, and any decision which the Assembly adopts must take into account not only this factor but also the practicability of the methods proposed. Economic development demands a better international trade structure. My country maintains that this structure should be base 1 on complete freedom and on the fairest competition.
44.	The flow of capital to the less developed countries has been a main concern of the Peruvian Government, which has offered and continues to offer every kind of guarantee to private capital in developing the oil production of the north and in exploiting the mineral resources of the south. At the same time it is prepared to make use of every possible assistance it is offered in the form of public and international capital. Such investment in the less developed countries is all the more urgent in that the difference between their standard of living and that of the more advanced countries is not disappearing as quickly as might be desired. Hence the urgent need for an effective policy of international investment — and my delegation welcomes the statement made on this subject last spring by the President of the United States. In this Assembly we have heard similar statements by Mr. Dulles, the United States Secretary of State [434th meeting], and we are sure that they represent essential principles in the foreign policy of the United States.
45.	The Peruvian delegation is in full agreement with the resolution [495 (XVI)] adopted by the Economic and Social Council on the establishment on a permanent basis of the United Nations Children’s Fund, to continue the excellent work it has accomplished on behalf of millions of children. The Peruvian Government has renewed its agreement with that agency and has taken the necessary budgetary action to fulfil its commitments in 1954.
46.	My delegation has devoted particular attention to the serious problem of the admission of new Members. We' have pointed out that twenty States, of acknowledged international personality and of a peace-loving nature, remain outside the United Nations. They represent one quarter of mankind. This anomaly cannot continue. Three solutions have been advanced to settle the crisis. The first, a political compromise, is for the simultaneous admission of a group of States, including those recommended by the Soviet Union. The second involves the revision or annulment of the jurisprudence established by the Security Council, which has laid down that the rule of unanimity shall apply to recommendations; the General Assembly would regard the Council’s action merely as a procedural step or would consider that a recommendation had been adopted if a simple majority had voted in favour of the immediate admission of the applicants. The third procedure, advocated by my delegation, does not dispute the Council’s jurisprudence and does not authorize the General Assembly to review that jurisprudence, In its proposal, my delegate takes into account only this one fact, that the United Nations is paralysed and seems to be definitely departing from the principle established by the spirit and the letter of the Charter, namely, that the sole condition which a State must fulfil in order to qualify for membership is that it must pursue a peace-loving policy.
47.	In view of this crisis, my delegation has maintained that the special powers of the General Assembly should be used to preserve the unity of the United Nations in accordance with the spirit and letter of the Charter. It draws attention- — as Mr. Noel-Baker, the British statesman and lawyer, has just done so authoritatively — to the precedent established in the General Assembly resolution [377 (V)] entitled “Uniting for peace”, in which the General Assembly exercised those special powers in order to defend peace and to achieve collective security. The present international situation does not permit of such radical action as that envisaged in the last two solutions. Nevertheless, we consider that the compromise solution can be made more flexible and effective if it does not appear as a one-sided proposal or an imposed condition but as the result of consultations and good offices designed to bring divergent opinions closer together with a view to the fullest possible agreement, but always based on the indispensable principle of Article 4 of the Charter. We also believe that, if there is only partial agreement, an embarrassing situation might arise both for those countries whose applications are pending and for the States which have already adopted a different juridical position.
48.	The specific and categorical reservation should (therefore be made that the action taken and the consultations held would in no way compromise the juridical positions adopted by States or the General Assembly’s freedom to carry out, in the light of the new aspects of the problem, the duties and responsibilities incumbent upon it in its zealous defence and implementation of the United Nations Charter. Thus there would be a compromise between the advantages of a truly political solution adopted in the general interest, and the perfectly reasonable positions of principle of individual governments.
49.	The delegation of Peru wishes now to speak on the important question of the revision of the Charter, as provided in Article 109. We were amazed at the arguments that revision should be regarded not only as unlawful but also as dangerous and inexpedient. Such arguments are based on complete disregard of the provisions of Article 109. We must remind the Soviet representatives that the great majority of States, including the Arab and Asian States, many European States and all those of Latin America, considered the provisions of the Charter to be inadequate, particularly as regards the inconceivable application of the veto to peaceful measures. As early as 1949 I maintained this in the Assembly [192nd meeting], with the explicit approval of Mr. Evatt, the then President, who had headed the anti-veto campaign in San Francisco. We submitted to the adoption of the unanimity rule on the solemn promise that the veto would not be misused, that it would be applied only in exceptional cases, that honest attempts would be made to reach agreement and that only after failure would such dissent be registered. I draw the General Assembly’s attention to the fact that it was not sufficient for us to record our understanding of the veto; we pressed for and obtained the promise, in Article 109, that the Charter would be revised. Hence this article is not only a statutory provision but also the fulfilment of an honourable promise which enables us to work for the revision of the Charter.
50.	Article 109 is closely connected with the desire of the vast majority of the Members of the United Nations, assembled at San Francisco, to ensure the revision of the Charter in due course, a desire which, already great in San Francisco, has grown greater in view of the misuse of the veto. With regard to coercive measures it is just conceivable that a great Power might oppose them, as the delegations of Belgium and Peru have suggested, for political and moral reasons, but international justice must never be impeded. The use of the veto in connexion with an investigation, conciliation, mediation and any action in the interest of peace is completely illogical and an outrage to common sense; it turns the veto into an instrument for political domination. The revision of the Charter is essential in this and in other respects and we do not feel that such revision can be improvised. The ideas and suggestions of all countries in the world must first be assembled and then critically analysed and classified.
51.	We sympathize with the suggestions of the Netherlands, Egypt and Argentina, but with the following qualification: the opinions of governments and of scientific institutions must, be assembled prior to, and as a basis for, the work of a technical committee. The committee must not work independently but on the basis of the material submitted by the governments and institutions of the various States.
52.	Over all these questions disarmament assumes tragic but essential priority. It is the main problem and the key to international existence. Military discoveries have influenced the political structure of mankind. Artillery marked the end of feudal society. Standing armies consolidated national States localized war, fought by professional soldiers, was juridically regulated and, during the long periods of peace which, it must be admitted, resulted from the balance of forces, professional armies gave place to national armies. Unfortunately new methods of attack and lightning mobilization plans encourage warlike ventures which develop into total war, eradicating the difference between victors and vanquished. Today no country is able, by war, to establish or to consolidate its supremacy. After the First World War an attempt was made to establish an international community which was neither universal nor able to take coercive action. The Second World War resulted in the experiment of our own Organization, but weapons of mass destruction, and especially the use of atomic energy, threaten the world with destruction and make a new international structure necessary.
53.	The juridical conflicts to which atomic energy has given rise are well known. According to the experts, complete defence of a territory is an illusion and the vast expenditure involved leads to economic collapse. The accumulation of retaliatory weapons constitutes a psychological factor which may hinder aggressive action but in no way removes the threat of war; it maintains tension and entails great economic waste, owing to constant and rapid changes in technology. It can be asserted today with all certainty and emphasis that State monopoly of atomic energy is inconsistent with international peace, the security of States and the very existence of mankind.
54.	There is no other way but to endeavour, with determination and application, and with the strength which the conscience of mankind imparts, to achieve complete international control of atomic energy with a view to its ultimate prohibition.
55.	I wish to stress that there are two positions: the first is spectacular and unconditional prohibition leading to control; and the second, which is our position, is immediate international control in order to ensure effective prohibition. I feel that it has been made clear in the discussions in the General Assembly that the first alternative is ineffective and is merely a stratagem to impress public opinion, whereas the other is based on facts and on the dictates of science. We cannot resign ourselves to the paradox of human development where everything is light and harmony in science and art and where everything is darkness and discord in human relations. The depth of the problem exceeds our ken and opens up mysterious moral, religious and social perspectives. What we need is a radical change in man’s thinking. Since the Renaissance man has been brought up with the absurd idea of the absolute value of power; he must finally change from that attitude to the idea of solidarity or, as Max Scheler said, from the knowledge of dominion to that of salvation. From the social point of view we would require the irresistible pressure of world opinion to unite every country and to replace the countless stresses arising from national pride, demagogic deceit and the Idolatrous worship of leaders.
56.	All we have is brilliant, and sometimes cold, juridical formulae and the limited resources of diplomacy. Nevertheless, we maintain our faith despite all obstacles, in the midst of uncertainty and discouragement. The United Nations, which is the hope of our civilization, will fulfil its duty.

===== Session 09 - 1954 =====
Mr. President, your presence here brings back the emotional and hopeful moments of the San Francisco Conference, where I had the good fortune and the honour to know you and to appreciate your fine qualities as a diplomat, and especially as a modern • diplomat, because of your wide knowledge, your liberal judgment and the profoundly humanitarian way in which you dealt with all questions. I can say that at that time I had the feeling that your brilliant career would one day culminate in your presiding over the General Assembly, thus continuing the brilliant course of the Presidents who have directed our work with such great success, among whom Latin America is honoured to have had its own efficient and worthy representatives. I fed that it is indeed a happy omen that, at a time when the General Assembly’s ninth session is meeting and has to cope with such difficult problems in an atmosphere of uncertainty, our work will be directed by you with the delicate tact and human feeling which are your finest attributes.
2.	As the tenth anniversary of our Organization approaches, serious problems loom ahead, which, if left unsolved may endanger its very existence. We cannot resign ourselves to the fact that, in the matter of the great questions on which not only the progress but the very existence of mankind and the survival of all culture depend today, the United Nations should merely be regarded as a rostrum from which opposing monologues are delivered. It is said that such statements clarify world opinion and tend to form a kind of collective consciousness. That is probably so, but it is also true that debate of this kind accentuates differences, prevents problems being solved, and at times fans the passions which ominously accompany all debates. The time has come to ask ourselves in all sincerity whether the United Nations is merely a meeting place for the exchange of views, a debating society, or an institution in the scientific and historic meaning of the word, with a personality which at any moment can take effective action and take the right course.
3.	An institution presupposes a community of aims and spiritual values, and, in the end, strict application of the principles deriving therefrom. The changing and ever-moving course of life may in certain cases and at certain times call for some flexibility of decision, but the fundamental purpose and standards of an effective and greater coexistence will always stand out in their great immutability. I stress the deep and beautiful meaning of the Spanish word “convivencia”, which means much more than “coexistence”. In this connexion I share the views of the President of the General Assembly. “Coexistence” seems to have a purely negative meaning, which at the present time is accentuated by the ephemeral, transitory and evanescent meaning given to the word “existence” in the vocabulary of contemporary philosophy. “Convivencia” means the union of lives in sincere understanding and loyal cooperation. An institution requires not only coexistence but also true convivencia. This spiritual community for high ends is in keeping with the great Western Judaic-Greco-Christian philosophic traditions and all the great religions of the world. It even appears in the philosophy of Hegel, who was responsible for the idea of a State being constituted by groups of the extreme right and the extreme left, forming what that philosopher called an objective spirit.
4.	. The United Nations cannot be conceived as other than a full and effective organ, or, if you wish, as an objective spirit. Within this concept attention must be drawn to the decisive factor of self-knowledge, or rather the knowledge of one’s own personality and its destiny and the means of fulfilling that destiny. An impartial study of the United Nations shows that it has achieved success whenever its work has been inspired and accompanied by a clear institutional consciousness, a vision of its high aims and an unswerving devotion to certain standards of justice.
5.	Failures have not been due, as some think, to unfavourable circumstances or to the complexity of the problems, but to some defect in its own life, in the feelings and functioning of the United Nations.
6.	In contrast with the failure to solve certain political problems, there is to be noted a great unity of action among the United Nations in the exploration of economic problems, in the technical assistance programmes and in the international efforts to protect children. Although this incipient accord may be attributed to many causes, one of the most important is the institutional manner, the clear institutional consciousness with which the United Nations has acted in this field, since it cannot be denied that we all agree on the urgent need to promote the welfare of the economically underdeveloped countries.
7.	Despite the significance of this co-operation between the United Nations, it is obvious that this Organization’s mission and responsibility are of an extent and type which go beyond the praiseworthy but nevertheless inadequate work already accomplished.
8.	I fully understand that it is no longer possible to doubt that the low standard of living in the economically under-developed countries is a factor which upsets regional equilibrium, and that in turn results in the instability of peace in general. It can therefore be affirmed that to work for the welfare of such countries is really to ensure peace for the future. It might be said that it is a question of sowing the seeds of peace.
9.	To this end, the Western world, both inside and outside the United Nations, should increasingly promote the economic and social progress of these countries, using for that purpose technical assistance and an international trade aimed primarily at assisting the economies of needy countries. With this same purpose in mind, the creation of the Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development and the International Finance Corporation should be expedited. They are institutions which, by complementing the action of private capital, will provide highly useful methods to be followed by these countries. The establishment of an international fund for the disposal of the surpluses or balances of all countries, to be used to finance specific economic development programmes, might also be considered.
10.	These are the brief comments which my country wishes to make at present on this problem facing our whole international order. For its part, Peru has cooperated and will continue to co-operate with the United Nations, the United States and other European and Latin-American countries in numerous economic and technical assistance programmes, following the precepts of a free economy and recognizing the need to welcome all foreign capital, both public and private, which wishes to come to Peru to help develop and improve our economy. My country needs the vitalizing presence of new courses of wealth, as well as technique and co-operation generally in order to obtain foreign markets for its produce and thus procure the currencies needed for its economic development. Only in that way can my country continue the rate of progress which is recognized as its due and which it has so far experienced.
11.	But, to return to the main point of my argument, I would say that the success of the United Nations is built upon a dear consciousness of itself as an institution and the fulfilment of its duties.
12.	Turning to politico-legal matters, no one can deny that the United Nations affirmed its existence when it took steps, almost unanimously, to meet aggression. All the peoples of Europe, America, Asia, Africa and Oceania, with the exception of those who were concerned in the incidents in question, co-operated in condemning aggression and in adopting measures conducive to peace. Any division or deviation at that crucial moment would have led not only to the weakening 0f our institution, but to its bankruptcy and disappearance
13.	Lastly, to show that the United Nations has an institutional consciousness and adheres to certain legal standards, let me quote the case which is still fresh in our memory — that of the prisoners of war in Korea. As the result of an evolution of law, the prisoner who was formerly regarded as a slave, then ransomed and exchanged, and afterwards claimed by his own country, now falls under an international protection which recognizes his right freely to decide as to his repatriation. Such a doctrine and its realization is a triumph in the history of the United Nations and emphasizes the decisive influence of its institutional and legal consciousness.
14.	Very serious and profound problems confront us at the present time. Neither brilliance of debate nor the most exhaustive information will help to solve these problems if the United Nations, when faced with them, does not apply the criteria to which I have referred and which are not only in the very nature of our institution, but which are consecrated in the text of the Charter,
15.	In all sincerity and objectivity I should like now to refer to the problem which sums up the profound crisis through which mankind is now passing — disarmament, in its dual aspect of prohibition of nuclear weapons and a reasonable limitation of conventional armaments to the needs of self-defence. The so-called “balance of forces” or “balance of power” has throughout history manifested itself in an interesting and some-, times useful way. It is true that armament races have led to war, but it is also true that, while the tendency towards equilibrium and a reasonable balance has not prevented war, it has given us long and fruitful periods of peace. Such periods of peace have been broken on many occasions as a result of a surprise upset in the existing equilibrium. The use of nuclear energy in its most recent forms does not allow of the application of the theory of equilibrium. The tremendous power of the new weapons requires what might be called the extension of a state of law to those armaments which were previously subject to the domestic jurisdiction of each State. It is not that the principles have changed; they are the same in so far as a State’s rights and duties are concerned. But the radical and profound change in the purposes for which they are applied must necessarily have different consequences.
16.	The personality of the State, with its historical and cultural physiognomy, its full political sovereignty and free economic structure, must today, as yesterday, be respected and not touched. Respect for the personality of each State is the essence of the international order. This principle cannot be attenuated or modified, but just for that reason its application at the present time requires such international regulations of nuclear energy as will ensure the life of every State and, reciprocally, the life of every State which might use such weapons. The international world today therefore inescapably requires international regulation of a weapon on which hangs the life of States and the free development of their culture.
17.	Self-imposed limitations have been notable, landmarks in the effective progress of international order protecting and safeguarding but never diminish national sovereignty. Any international regular pre-supposes the voluntary acceptance of some limitation on the offering by each State of some service on behalf of the international community. The personality, economic structure and essential rights of each State will always be reserved matters. But other matters connected with the work of States and the relations between them are more and more coming under international jurisdiction — in economics, through the creation of organs of control and administration; in politics, through conciliation commissions and arbitration ex aequo et bono; in the legal field, through arbitration properly so-called and, more important still through the International Court of Justice. The exclusive production and use of nuclear energy by a State without international control are therefore not only incompatible with international coexistence and harmony, but with the very existence of States.
18.	To think now that because the great Powers possess nuclear weapons, and because of the fear of instantaneous and general reprisals, a mutual ban will be imposed which will lead to such weapons not being used is unfortunately a dangerous deduction which overlooks certain gloomy factors of collective psychology, such as illusion, fraudulent and equivocal calculations, the uncontrollable pressure of certain circumstances, the morbid obsession, with propaganda which obscures the vision of the truth, and, lastly, that mysterious and catastrophic impulse towards suicide of which we have had examples in contemporary history and more recently in our own days. In addition, it must be remembered that, although it seems improbable that nuclear weapons will be used because of such a mutual ban, there has already been created among human beings a fear psychosis which is in itself a deterrent to international progress and harmony among men. On the other hand, this psychosis has an advantage, but certainly not for those people who by their deep and lasting ethical and legal traditions and their conception of life, know that a preventive war can never rightly be begun.
19.	Nuclear weapons have brought about a profound change in the life of mankind; a psychological, moral, economic and political change. How then can it be thought that such changes do not simultaneously involve a legal change? How can our Organization, the supreme human institution, reflect the life of mankind if it does not adapt itself to the changes taking place in that life at the present time?
20.	If no such adaptation takes place, the United Nations will be unable to fulfil its mission. It must follow step by step the progress and the changes occurring in the life of mankind. Let it not be said that, in order to follow such changes in parallel, revision of the Charter is essential because some of its provisions are already incompatible or inapplicable. We cannot accept hat interpretation of the Charter. We cannot forget bat peace and coexistence are the supreme aims of our Organization and that disarmament is envisaged in various Articles of the Charter, both in those relating to the function of the Security Council and in those relating to the functions of the General Assembly. No written constitution or charter can be as rigid as it is desired to make the United Nations Charter. Principles must be interpreted in relation to the purposes of the Organization and in accordance with the needs of the time.
21.	In this connexion I remember that the Roman praetor when dealing with the same principles in different circumstances, created that law which is the marvel of the centuries. Are we, with a technique which is superior to that of the Romans, and with a higher and divine moral background, to be incapable of adapting our political institutions to the needs of our time? A negative reply to that question would deny every principle of human progress. But if, in spite of this, it should be believed that the present structure of the Charter does not correspond to new and basic aspects of man’s life, that fact would indicate an imperative need for revision of the Charter in order that it may correspond to the high purposes for which it was written and meet the needs of our time.
22.	We fully recognize the great importance of the role played by the regional bodies and agreements, which, the veto being foreseen, were incorporated in the United Nations Charter, precisely so that changes could be made when new means of safeguarding the peace required them.
23.	America has set the example of a regional body and agreement nearly seven decades old and in the Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance has set forth effective formulas for solidarity in meeting aggression and means for peaceful settlement and punitive action. Similarly, we note with deep interest that the principles proclaimed on our continent have been extended to other areas for an essentially defensive purpose and in order to safeguard peace. But let us remember that these agreements were brought about in an international situation in which the production of nuclear weapons was scarcely beginning. Today the situation has radically changed. Methods of destruction have reached the peak of their power and are shared by all the Powers which have diametrically opposite political interests and conceptions of life. These agreements, even if they function perfectly, hardly represent the diverse aspects of a very useful, necessary, advisable, equal political equilibrium because it is always based on the uncertain supposition that a mutual ban will be placed on the use of weapons of mass destruction. Such a supposition is not a sure guarantee for the full life, free from fear, to which all the peoples of the world have a right.
24.	May I recall that one of the principles included in the Atlantic Charter was freedom from fear. Freedom from fear is not solely individual. The most dangerous form of fear is collective fear, and today, because of atomic energy, man lives in that state of collective fear.
25.	If the United Nations does not solve this problem, uneasiness will continue, the rivalry between the Powers will persist, and there will still be an equivocal situation, with subversive war, a cold war, with infiltration and a surprise attack at some sensitive spot. For that reason we consider that it is our duty, especially of those of us who belong to medium-sized and small nations and who abhor adventures in power, to proclaim from this rostrum the imperative need of finding without delay an immediate and final solution to the problem of disarmament by means of international control.
26.	This question has been discussed as long as the United Nations has lived. Some will ironically conclude that the debate will go on without any practical result being achieved. The fact is that these discussions have already resulted in very important conclusions being reached — in Paris, for instance — in useful rapprochements in many cases; and also, I must recall, although this may seem paradoxical, that some useful contrasts have been brought out. We have attacked the problem and a sound attack at least leads half-way to a solution. I draw the following conclusions from this historic debate.
27.	First, as we said in Paris, any theoretical, spectacular, general, vague declaration made for the gallery on the prohibition of weapons of mass destruction, which safeguards no one and convinces no one but, on the contrary, awakens a general feeling of suspicion in proportion to the emphasis involved in such theoretical declaration, would be useless. I am not exaggerating when I say that, if the discussions in this Assembly produce a purely theoretical declaration, based on a non-existent confidence and on a sense of honour which, even though it does exist, does not inspire confidence in the public generally, it would be followed immediately — and this is a psychological factor which I wish to emphasize — by a wave of suspicion among mankind. We have at least learned that psychological factor from these debates. We cannot deceive the public, already informed on these matters, with a spectacular and theoretical declaration. The declaration will not deceive anyone. On the contrary it will engender suspicion and criticism. We should therefore avoid making any spectacular or theoretical declaration.
28.	Secondly, what mankind needs, as it already has a wide knowledge of this problem, is a legal statute, a convention, establishing as a legal obligation the prohibition of the use of atomic energy by means of effective and immediate international control. That is what world opinion wants — a legal statute, a legal obligation, an agreement and a body to see that the agreement is honoured.
29.	Thirdly, such control would necessarily involve the inspection and verification of all production centres. I must add, with respect to the control organ, that it should be impartially constituted and should carry out its inspection and verification duties under conditions of absolute equality and full reciprocity, so that the inspectors of one Power would have the same rights in the territory and factories of the other Power that the inspectors of the latter Power had in its own territory. Not one right more or less; not one action more or less. Nothing is more in accordance with sovereignty than such a rule of full reciprocity and fair and arithmetical equality.
30.	It may be said that we have approached agreement on these three principles which were brought out in Paris, and I must recall that it was also stated in Paris that the international control organ should not have the power of veto and that all its decisions must be reached by a majority vote. The only remaining objection would seem to be the objection of sovereignty.
31.	To these three points may be added two more — one of which is dependent on our legal organization and the other will depend on an accomplished fact.
32.	In the fourth place, any disagreement between the international organ and the States concerned regarding the exercise of the right of inspection should be settled summarily by a court of law, by the International Court of Justice. And I would add that if it is thought that the procedures of the International Court of Justice are too complicated, then a special tribunal could be set up with full guarantees of impartiality and with powers of immediate action.
33.	Fifthly, as President Eisenhower has suggested, all countries should become members of an agency set up for the purpose of encouraging and promoting the peaceful use of nuclear energy. I am grateful to the distinguished United States Secretary of State, Mr. John Foster Dulles, for making clear — indeed for revealing — the possible bases of an agreement on this matter.
34.	 So then — to sum up — five distinct elements are required: first, a legal statute; secondly, a fully guaranteed organ of control; thirdly, powers of inspection on a basis of equality and reciprocity; fourthly, powers of judicial action to deal with any complaint which may be made by a country in defence of its sovereignty; and, finally, co-operation among men to divert the use of atomic energy from criminal to peaceful purposes.
35.	I cannot believe that, if the problem is posed in this way, if it is presented in this form to the conscience of humankind, there will not arise in support of it a great tide of opinion in all the countries of Europe, Asia, Africa, America and Oceania — a tide which nothing can hold back, for it would be the expression not only of our feelings but of the imperative demands of life itself. And I would say, with all the sincerity of which I am capable, with the respect which is due to the representatives of a great people and a great nation — I am referring to the representatives of the Soviet Union, who are profoundly aware of economic, political and military realities — that they cannot nor should they ignore the psychological reality. This factor of world opinion may penetrate the Soviet Union itself and can and should inspire the policies of its Government.
36.	This would be a real trial by fire, the acid test as the English say, of the United Nations. There is nothing in the very nature of the Organization, nor in the words of the Charter, however strict and literal an interpretation may be put upon them, which would warrant opposition to the adoption of such principles, On the contrary, their application would be in full accord, allowances being made for the demands of the period, with the spirit of San Francisco, with the intention of the authors of the 'Charter and that of the creators of our Organization. The dilemma is inescapable: either the United Nations will be the organ for the international control of disarmament or it will not be, however long its debate may go on or its other activities be pursued.
37.	Everyone is familiar with the facts which form the background to the ninth session. I shall not attempt to assess their significance nor to make forecasts from them, nor, because of them, to deny any hopes. We are not interested in what might be called final hopes based on a dubious calculation of the probabilities. To us, hope is something deeper and more real, because more urgent. It is a hope which is based on the fulfilment of a duty. Let me, without hatred, without recrimination or resentment, without guile or deception say what I think is our mission. If any constructive principle is to guide us it should be one inspired by the thought that above the clash of particular interests and political systems and beyond the structure of States, the soul of all our peoples is longing for peace, harmony and international co-operation. Above all, we should be deeply conscious of our duty as an institution. Every duty is by its nature an important stimulus.
38.	Past events are irreversible and in many cases irreparable. Fate has denied us power over the future; there remains to us only the present within which to accomplish our duty. People will say that there are many difficulties, but the greater difficulties the more imperative the duty. It will be said that the outlook is dark, but the greater are the courage and decision required of us in fulfilling our duty. We cannot resign ourselves to the idea that after life has appeared on this planet and human consciousness has flowered, it should be precisely during this period of flowering that life itself should be annihilated and our planet revolve lifeless upon its axis in the eternal silence of infinite space, destroyed by an act of suicide. I am well aware of our present difficulties, but I have faith in the instinct of mankind, which has always turned upon every difficulty an eternal and heartening light, the light of duty fulfilled.


===== Session 10 - 1955 =====
66.	I associate myself whole-heartedly with the congratulations which Mr. Maza has received on his well-deserved election as President of the General Assembly. He was elected because of his personal merits and his brilliant parliamentary career, and his election is at the same time a recognition of Chile’s enthusiastic support of the United Nations and the conspicuous services it has rendered the Organization.
67.	I must also recall, both as a matter of justice and out of affection, the brilliant manner in which the former President, Mr. van Kleffens, gave us proof of human [feeling, extreme courtesy, and a masterly skill in settling difficult questions.
68.	And since I am talking about justice, I cannot omit, in this review, to pay a tribute to the work done by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in preparation for the Geneva Conference, the success of which we are all enthusiastically acclaiming, and to the negotiations which he conducted with such intelligence and adroitness on behalf of the prisoners detained in China, which were also crowned with success.
69.	Having satisfied justice, I shall turn to the questions before us. The commemoration of the signing of the United Nations Charter at San Francisco gave us an opportunity to examine the Organization’s work and to point out some of the reasons which had made it difficult and the perils which beset it. In sober and authoritative terms, speakers expressed the view that the balance sheet of the United Nations was favourable. We believe, however, that an attempt should be made to examine the Organization as a whole. We emphasize this word “whole” because the United Nations, a living institution, does not depend on the legal provisions of the Charter alone, but on the whole complex of psychological, economic, social and moral factors which have come within what we might call its vital scope.
70.	When the League of Nations was founded, many believed that the European system of balance of power had been abolished and superseded by the so-called collective security system embodied in the juridical obligation of common defence. But that plan, which in any case lacked the necessary universality because of the absence of the United States of America, the late entry of the Soviet Union and of Germany, and then the withdrawal of the latter and also of Japan, failed. It failed because the League put its faith mostly in the; legal aspect of the problem, without taking the moral atmosphere into accounts — an atmosphere unfortunately vitiated at the time by conflicting ideological currents ~ and without paying attention to the essential factor, the economic interdependence of States.
71.	The experience of the League of Nations led the founders of the United Nations to seek the greatest possible degree of universality by bringing in all the large States and opening the door to all peace-loving countries. The Soviet Union and the United States of America, which had been absent when the League of Nations was founded, were the two pillars of the new Organization. The Security Council was given executive powers for the defence of peace. The Military Staff Committee was set up and means were provided whereby all States could co-operate in any necessary restraining action. An effort was made to develop human solidarity in its cultural and economic aspects, both as an end in itself and as a means of ensuring peace. Lastly, in conferring upon the General Assembly, true expression of the democracy of States, the power to discuss matters, provision was made to enlist the feelings of world public opinion for peace. Thus the merely legal obligation of collective security was to become integrated in its vital process with economic and cultural interdependence, and the whole was to be guided by the universal conscience, as personified by and incarnated in the General Assembly.
72.	We could thus envisage not only the coexistence of equal and sovereign Powers within their own spheres in which no one should interfere, but a programme of economic co-operation requiring a living and fruitful moral atmosphere.
73.	The great Powers were given the mandate to preserve peace and to use all their strength and resources for that purpose. The Charter respected regional agreements. Dependent peoples were given the hope of achieving self-government, sacred mandates being established in some cases and in other cases trusteeship agreements which were to lead to independence and freedom. Lastly, the Statute of the International Court of Justice was drafted, and it was hoped that the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court would be extended.
74.	All this magnificent and imposing machinery was based, unfortunately, on two postulates: constant agreement of the great Powers in all important questions and the existence of a moral atmosphere of complete agreement on certain ethical questions, without, which it is impossible for obligations to be fulfilled or juridical institutions to function. I repeat — a political aspect — agreement among the great Powers; a moral aspect — full agreement on ethical certainties, that is to say, on international morals.
75.	Events have shown that these two conditions have rarely been fulfilled. The Soviet Union has followed its traditional policy, which is based on its own geographical and military position, and it took full advantage of its military position when the other Allies suddenly disarmed, while Europe was in the grip of a serious crisis. The life of our Organization began at a time of great instability; that should be clearly indicated by political sociology. Moreover, once the common danger had disappeared through the destruction of the Nazi regime, the contrast re-emerged between the Western concept of life, which endeavours to realize social justice within a context of freedom, and the Marxist concept, which endeavours to realize it through the all-powerful action of the State.
76.	The century-old experience of Europe has proved that a concentration of power, with its tendency towards a universal State, can be halted only by an equilibrium achieved under the beneficent and effective influence of spiritual values. With all its defects, the limitation of power by balance, in accordance with concepts dating back to mediaeval tradition, brought long periods of peace to Europe during the eighteenth century and initiated that concert of Powers described by Voltaire in memorable pages, which was a unique example in the history of civilization. The same factors of military and political balance and spiritual community also brought long periods of peace to Europe in the nineteenth century, and up to the 1914 war, as has been clearly shown by Professor Taylor in his book, The Struggle for Mastery in Europe.
77.	The United Nations could not be given the magic power of creating ex nihilo and overnight the elements necessary to replace the military and moral conditions for the limitation of power which existed under the old system of balance. Fortunately, the Charter has safeguarded the principle of regional collective security in the event that universal collective security does not function owing to lack of agreement among the great Powers. Thanks to this principle, and within the letter and spirit of the Charter, treaties can be signed which guarantee not only peace within a certain region, but also defence against all extra-regional aggression, thus making a certain balance possible.
78.	It is true that the discovery of atomic weapons in the critical period between 1946 and 1949 placed in the hands of the West the greatest force capable of halting or containing aggression, but it did not prevent wars of subversion, a slow and stealthy advance, constant infiltration, and lastly, expansion in Asia, which could only be arrested by the miracle of collective action which took place in Korea.
79.	Economic co-operation, with the generous help of the United States, has brought about a favourable change in European countries. Christian democracy, which admirably synthesizes the supreme dignity of the individual with the most advanced requirements of social justice, prepared the reconstruction of Italy and Germany, and inspired that of France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, thus preparing the integration of Europe on a basis of economic unity and cultural community. With indefatigable and heroic dignity, Spain has countered all intervention, no matter whence it came, with its supreme desire for independence which, in keeping with its glorious traditions, it has always exercised in favour of the West, that is, of peace.
80.	The economic rehabilitation and the democratic organization of Europe have created a link of effective mutual dependence which is reflected in the treaties which have been signed, the essence and aim of which is peace. This type of mutual dependence has also inspired other pacts signed by the democratic countries of Asia and of other areas for common defence.
81.	Slowly, in accordance with the letter and spirit of the United Nations Charter, conditions have been created for a new balance, of a defensive character, the efficacy of which is reflected in the change in the policy of the Soviet bloc. This result speaks with crushing eloquence of the need to maintain and consolidate the position which has been reached.
82.	Although the Soviet Union also possesses nuclear weapons, the balance does not appear to have been endangered. The infinite danger of these weapons has created an attitude of restraint on both sides. Nuclear weapons, unlike other armaments, do not awaken the spirit of adventure or the desire to go to war at every opportunity in the fallacious illusion of a swift and final victory. The conviction is taking root, in the minds not only of the leaders but also of the peoples of the world — and it is our duty to strengthen this conviction — that atomic warfare, even if it is begun locally and is limited at first to tactical operations, will tend to become generalized and will lead quickly to the annihilation of both sides. Not the dream of a universal empire, but the ghastly nightmare of universal destruction, hangs over the minds of the leaders of today.
83.	Today there is no common body of transcendental beliefs and ethical certainties, nor is there any common concept of life, such as existed in the balance of Europe in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, but there does exist, in addition to the material balance which is now developing, a consciousness of the common danger which would arise as a result of any warlike adventure. It is obvious that generous spirits would prefer to a negative bond and reciprocal fear  — to what is known as the balance of terror — a positive union based on respect for the genuine ways of life of each people and mutual understanding of the particular value of each culture. But, failing such profound and dynamic solidarity, we must take full advantage of what has been created by reciprocal restraint, perfecting it, as the Charter requires, by economic interdependence and cultural exchange. There is a crystal-clear and most encouraging fact in life today: economies are developing in mutual dependence and the various cultures are becoming increasingly richer by their influence on one another.
84.	It will be said that the United Nations, not as a legal system but as a living reality, has only revived the former balance which was. discredited by two catastrophes and the system of alliances to which has been attributed the instability which led to two wars. We can affirm with all sincerity, having carefully studied the facts, that these catastrophes occurred precisely because not enough attention had been paid to maintaining an effective and timely balance in the material and moral fields. It is obvious that there are similarities between the balance which is developing today within the framework of the Charter and the former balance, but it would be absurd to base a tendentious identification on such similarities when in fact there are differences, as I shall proceed to show.
85.	The former balance was based primarily on the politico-military idea that States lived for war. The new balance uses, and has to use, politico-military elements, but within a juridical organisation.
86.	The former balance presumed an aristocracy of States, a situation which was not affected by the; role which was occasionally, and temporarily, assigned to the small Powers, as at the Congress of Vienna. The new balance calls for equality of all States in co-operation for peace and security, except that the greater Powers have greater responsibility. Proof of this lies in the decisive role played to-day by the medium-sized and smaller Powers of America, Asia, Africa and Oceania.
87.	The former balance was compatible with economic rivalries, which in some cases led to temporary adjustments of a commercial nature. The new balance presupposes effective economic interdependence and the need for and mutual advantage of co-operating in the development of the non-industrialized countries, and in the raising of the standard of living of all peoples.
88.	The former balance was sometimes supported by religious convictions and the opinion of cultured minorities. The new balance seeks the support of popular opinion and endeavours to encourage the creation of a true universal conscience.
89.	The most important difference between the old bar lance and the new lies in their respective goals. In the former system, population increase and economic progress led to increased power and changes in the military situation which could be compensated only by superhuman efforts on the part of the less favoured nations, the readjustment of old alliances or the creation of new ones. This unstable situation led to the so-called arms race, with its attendant danger of war. The new balance, which must not be regarded as an end in itself, but as a means towards a higher end, calls for a reduction of armaments to the level strictly necessary for defence, instead of an arms race. The new balance is therefore linked by its intrinsic nature to disarmament, or, to be more explicit, to the limitation and reduction of arms.
90.	As the Charter lays down, States must not live for war, but for peace. The stabilization, or the “freezing”, of armed forces is not sufficient. We cannot be satisfied with a balance which might be called static. The new balance must be flexible, and although this may appear paradoxical, it must he dynamic, in that it must lead to a gradual, equitable and proportionate reduction of weapons of war to the limit needed for defence.
91.	With regard to weapons of mass destruction, whether nuclear or not — high explosives, bacterial and chemical warfare — the human conscience demands their complete abolition, but not merely by words or rhetoric for propaganda purposes, which today can deceive no one. An effective and tangible limitation arms must be carried out through solemn treaties setting forth the juridical obligation of instituting an effective international control that cannot be paralysed by any system of voting. The lengthy debates in the General Assembly have had the merit of clarifying these truths; there can be no prohibition without control, and there can be no control without constant and unrestricted inspection.
92.	The effectiveness of our Organization revolves around the provisions of the Charter relating to the limitation of armaments. The creation of a system that would make this effective is today the final test of sincerity in adhering to the Charter. This would require the bold initiation of frank and freely agreed inspection. The proposal made by President Eisenhower at the Geneva Conference for aerial inspection, preceded by an exchange of documentary information, must be considered in the light of these ideas. In order to appreciate the great importance of this plan, we must remember that inspection forms an indissoluble triad with control and prohibition. In order to ensure that the priority given to the abolition of nuclear weapons or to the limitation of conventional armaments does not confer an advantage on one bloc at the expense of the other, the representative of Australia suggested at the sixth session of the General Assembly that work should take place concurrently in both fields. The representative of Peru suggested that simultaneous action should be taken, and that suggestion was happily included in the Franco-British memorandum and solemnly accepted by the Soviet Union at the ninth session of the General Assembly [A/C.1/750].
93.	There is one element common to disarmament in both these spheres — the sphere of atomic weapons and the sphere of conventional armaments — and that is inspection, which would be carried out by air and by the exchange of documentary information. The type of inspection proposed by President Eisenhower is the supreme proof of good faith, a decisive instrument for restoring international confidence. Such inspection would make any surprise attack both psychologically and morally impossible, and would provide a practical basis for a future agreement on the abolition of nuclear weapons and the reduction of conventional armaments. Mutual inspection is in conformity with the principle of the juridical equality of States and, if it is made general through an international organization, it will not jeopardize State sovereignty, since this can be conceived of only as the freedom of each State within the international juridical order.
94.	Once an atmosphere of confidence is created and the bases for the limitation of armaments have been laid down, the rhythm of economic co-operation, which is today the great international desideratum, will be accelerated. Let us recall with legitimate pride everything that the United Nations has achieved during the days of international tension in the fields of technical assistance, child welfare, agricultural development, the struggle against disease, with limited resources and in an atmosphere of uncertainty, indeed, of fear. And let us consider the magnitude of the task that might be achieved if the prodigious sums now absorbed by war budgets were devoted to universal development programmes.
95.	This task would coincide with the plans for the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes, the astonishing features and application of which were demonstrated at the Geneva Conference. That Conference was admirable not only for. its technical results, but also as a moral example of sincere co-operation and as a proof of human solidarity. The mysterious force that might have been the end of a civilization is now going to be converted into the basis of a new one. It is unnecessary to draw attention to the importance of setting up an international agency, such as that proposed by the United States of America, which will be called upon to direct this new period in human development.
96.	Peru, faithful to its tradition of international solidarity, stands by its decision to collaborate fully in this programme. Indeed, as soon as the plan for the peaceful uses of atomic energy was presented, it informed the First Committee of its determination to contribute, so far as lay within its power, to the common fund that would be set up [725th meeting, para. 38].
97.	My Government’s policy is directed towards the effective realization of proposals for international co-operation. This co-operation is demonstrated in the political field by unshakable adherence to the purposes and principles of the United Nations, expressed by a true policy of peace and respect for the rights of other States, as a basis for the fulfilment of the most treasured human ideals.
98.	In the economic and social fields, the Peruvian Government, in compliance with the highest principles of social justice, is keeping the country’s doors open to economic, financial and technical co-operation with other States and other international organizations. Our legislation, while encouraging the development and application of techniques, offers the fullest protection to free enterprise, both by ensuring a free and unrestricted economy, and by attracting domestic or foreign private capital through a policy of encouragement and legal safeguards.
99.	An aspect of economic co-operation of especial interest to Peru and other countries in and outside America is the conservation and use of the resources and wealth of the sea. The sea, a magnificent instrument of communication and trade, is for the States-which border it a source of supply which today cannot be disregarded and left to intensive and unrestricted exploitation, jeopardizing the legitimate rights of countries which look to their territorial waters for a continuation of their physical and organic existence. Such exploitation would, moreover, jeopardize the interests of mankind. The conservation of the resources and wealth of the sea is to the advantage of all and calls for scientific, controlled and regulated exploitation by the riparian States directly concerned. In accordance with traditional principles, passage must always be free, but the vital question which we have emphasized calls for the exercise of protective national legislation.
100.	A glance at the events of recent days awakens in us a note of hope. We cannot fail to trust that international tension will effectively decline. The events which have taken place, although they have not immediately led to practical results, are in themselves of great significance. The Geneva Conference of the Heads of the four great Powers, the atmosphere of courtesy and understanding which reigned throughout those meetings, is a very great step indeed towards understanding and peace. There is now a favourable atmosphere for the direct and frank exchange of views which is a preliminary to all negotiations.
101.	This impartial and calm survey does not underestimate the difficulties which have to be overcome or the obstacles that still exist and which seem insuperable. Paced with them, it would be absurd to be over-optimistic. Illusion, like all calculations and wishful thinking, is based on transitory interests or feelings. But, faced with hard reality, which must be daily overcome, we must do our duty, and the reward which immanent justice confers on duty done is accompanied by the inspiring light of faith. This admirable union of duty and faith must suffice.

===== Session 11 - 1956 =====
I should like to begin with a few words of cordial welcome to the delegations of the friendly countries which have recently been admitted to the United Nations. We regret the absence of Viet-Nam and Korea. We hope for the unification of these countries and for their early admission to the United Nations. We also regret the unjustified postponement of the admission of Japan; we trust that Japan will take its place among us this year and enrich our membership with its traditional prestige.
67.	We cannot resign ourselves to the partition of Germany. Its unification once achieved, that country, with its glorious tradition of Leibniz, Goethe and Kant, should also be admitted to the United Nations.
68.	Permit me to address a few brief words to the delegations of Spain, Portugal and Italy, to which we are bound by ties of blood, religion and culture.
69.	Spain, the creator of many nations, occupies a place of honour in the United Nations — that civitas maxima which was visualized by Vitoria and Suarez, the founders of international law.
70.	Mankind is indebted to Portugal for the brilliant achievements of its navigators and explorers, and we in America are indebted to Portugal for the Brazilian nation, whose progress we follow with pride.
71.	The Roman Empire ostentatiously granted citizenship to assimilated peoples. The Italians of today, carrying their traditional culture to all parts of the world, are assimilated into their adopted countries, thus providing an example of a new conception of the universality of mankind, which preserves due respect for the individual qualities of each country.
72.	I should also like to pay my respects to you, Mr. President. In your own person you combine the age-old culture of your country with the best features of Western education. Your brilliant career has been, crowned by another achievement, the Presidency of the General Assembly. From this position, with skill and wisdom, you are presiding over our meetings at a decisive moment for humanity.
73.	I also extend my tribute and heartfelt good wishes to our Secretary-General, Mr. Hammarskjold, who has carried our message of justice and peace to the Middle East. We trust that tomorrow he may carry our words of liberty and hope to the people of Hungary.
74.	Tension in the individual is caused by the contest between mind and matter; tension in international affairs is caused by the contrast between right and might. The course of civilization has tended to soften this contrast if not to eliminate it. When Europe attained a state of balance, an international order took shape the object of which was to foster good will and honour among nations and which was guaranteed to some extent by the so-called balance of power.
75.	It was the tragic destiny of the twentieth century that this system of international relations under law, however imperfect it was, should be destroyed by the First World War. There then arose the desire for a legal system based not on the balance of power but upon strict law and on the rejection of war as an instrument of international policy. After barely fifteen years, an outraged humanity witnessed the revival of the cult of force and the bankruptcy of the organization which was at that time the embodiment of law and order.
76.	After an immense sacrifice of life and properly, there was reborn in the minds of all men the longing for a universal system of law supported by provision for enforcement action and based upon agreement between the leading Powers which had been the victors in that war. And so the United Nations came into being, the crowning point of our civilization and the focal point of our hopes. All the smaller Powers of Europe and America became Members. In the process of the liquidation of the old colonial system, countries of Africa and Asia became independent, with the co-operation — it must be admitted — of the Western Powers. The countries of Latin America have greeted with enthusiasm the admission of these new nations to this body.
77.	However, we must consider the profound, underlying reality beneath the system established by the Charter. Humanity has always lived on two planes: an ideal plane based on law and another, plane where the struggle for power has raged with ever-increasing intensity, although in a disguised and underground form. Here we have the classic contrast between raw violence and the dictates of justice.
78.	The last war, which was fought to defend the independence of Poland and to protect the right of self-determination of the small countries of Europe, unfortunately ended with the extension of the power of Soviet Russia to a line which the Czars themselves had never dreamed of, although, paradoxically enough, it had been foreseen by Marx and Engels, men blind to the power of the spirit but keenly interested in the expansion of physical power.
79.	It must be frankly admitted that since the Second World War the world has lived in an atmosphere which has been poisoned by this fundamental evil. The might of a great nation, if unchecked by spiritual factors and democratic institutions — and I repeat, it is necessary for it to be checked by both elements, by spiritual or moral factors and by democratic institutions — has an intrinsic tendency to expand. Soviet Russia was not content with extending its influence to the line which runs from Stettin to the Adriatic; it also sought to extend its power into Europe and Asia, it swallowed up the Baltic republics, it attempted to occupy Iran permanently, it helped the Chinese Communist Party by giving it Manchuria, it supported the invasion of the Republic of Korea, it kept afoot a war of subversion in Greece with the hope of extending its influence to the Mediterranean, and it has tried to extend its power to the Middle East. It disturbed the peace and balance of this uneasy region by a policy of encouraging armament, and while playing this dangerous game of power politics it posed as the defender of self-determination in the Mediterranean. At the same time it denied, as it still continues to deny, this right of self-determination to the countries of Eastern Europe.
80.	The Security Council was paralysed by the Soviet Union’s abuse of the veto. This veto was cast eighty times, and I must recall that when the veto power was approved at San Francisco it was conceived not as a privilege but as the mere statement of a dissent after a bona fide attempt to reach unanimous agreement. The Soviet Union refused to co-operate in any way in the establishment of a General Staff for the United Nations and it then obstructed the conclusion of agreements between all the nations and the Security Council, under Article 43 of the Charter, relating to enforcement actions under law.
81.	That the United Nations is still alive is a miracle. The only bright spots in the picture are its accomplishments in the economic and technical field and in the protection of children. The loftiness of the purposes of the Organization and the fine principles of the provisions relating to human rights contrast starkly with the brutal conditions under which a considerable part of humanity is living in the largest empire in history, which extends from the Baltic to the Pacific.
82.	We read with dismay the recent offer of the Soviet Union on disarmament, an offer in which it states that it could have occupied all Europe if the possibility of using atomic weapons did not exist. This confirms our conviction that the only thing which saved humanity from such a terrible conquest — besides, of course, the heroism of the peoples concerned — was fear of the atomic bomb possessed by the United States. And when the Soviet Union acquired the secret of this invention and the armaments race moved from the field of conventional weapons to that of nuclear weapons, peace was preserved, it is true, but in an unstable and humiliating way, by a kind of mutual fear and hesitation. During this uneasy phase of precarious balance, while total War was apparently being avoided for the moment, Soviet imperialism continued its expansion by waging a war of subversion, by engaging in political infiltration, by making false promises of economic aid, and by tempting other countries with alluring hopes of aggrandizement to alter the international status quo.
83.	Fortunately, the United Nations proved equal to its responsibilities and conceived the idea of holding emergency special sessions of the Assembly in cases of failure to act on the part of the Security Council. It organized an international army to defend Korea against aggression, and in every case it adopted resolutions by an overwhelming majority which constituted an appeal to the universal conscience and mobilized the imponderable factor of public opinion. Then gradually and sporadically the international tension began to ease.
84.	Unfortunately, there was no frank, noble and decisive change of policy, but only short breathing- spaces which threatened to end at the first favourable moment. In view of the continuation of all these unfavourable factors, and in view of the fact that there was no noble, resolute and straightforward desire to seek peace and agreement, we were not surprised by the tragic crises which rose to confront us both in the Middle East and Hungary — twin crises which the United Nations has met with dignity and justice.
85.	So far as the first crisis is concerned, in view of the almost unanimous acceptance of the Assembly’s resolution, we should receive, we hope to receive and ask and claim to receive the co-operation of all the Powers concerned. There is a cease-fire. The contingents of the United Nations Emergency Force are arriving like the heralds of a new era; Peru has offered to contribute to these contingents. We impatiently await the establishment of the peaceful atmosphere which is urgently needed before the great problems of the Middle East can be solved. The first of these problems is that of Israel’s coexistence with the Arab nations, a coexistence which will be possible if both sides observe the Assembly resolution and remember that in the final analysis their interests and destinies are closely interconnected. The second problem is that of the Suez Canal, concerning which the United Nations has decided on some very effective and helpful principles, such as isolation from political influence and respect for the sovereignty and legitimate interests of Egypt. And I should emphasize that the Charter makes international co-operation mandatory in all matters involving the economic and cultural interests of humanity and the very existence of the peoples of Europe and Asia.
86.	However, there is another problem which we have unfairly neglected: the internationalization of the Holy Places. Respect for the three great religions demands internationalization, and we should therefore deal with this matter without further delay. I believe that the effective presence of the United Nations in that area would have provided a guarantee of peace and promoted respect for moral authority and law and order.
87.	Turning now to other aspects of the serious problem of the Middle East, I must state here that my delegation fully supports the two draft resolutions which the United States delegation proposed during the emergency special sessions of the Assembly for the purpose of achieving a definitive settlement of the problems of that region. We must face the Middle Eastern problem realistically and in the light of these resolutions. Thought should also be given to the idea of United Nations action to carry out, in co-operation with all countries, an intensive programme of economic development and stabilization in that region, which would eliminate the structural factors that seem to have aggravated the crisis there.
88.	Since in this case, objective criteria and the lessons of experience coincide with moral imperatives, I believe that if a generous and comprehensive economic policy were worked out, and that if there were large-scale co-operation, in meeting the broad needs of the Middle East, particularly among the Powers which have the economic resources to carry out such a programme, we could invest the peace in that area with an economic stability backed by the guarantees of moral and legal principles.
89.	The Soviet leaders, aware that Stalin’s policy of brute force had carried their Administration to unimaginable extremes, took the final step of openly repudiating that policy before mankind, a step the consequences of which they themselves were unable to foresee and which must inevitably increase the longing of those peoples for a new system of government based on freedom and democracy and, above all, on national independence.
90.	The incipient crisis in Poland was adroitly evaded. In Hungary, however, the crisis was characterized, by unprecedented tragedy and violence because the Soviet Union, or more properly the leaders of the Soviet Union, insisted on bending all their energies to maintaining the Stalinist regime in Hungary while tolerating its modification elsewhere. To the horror of the world, the Soviet Union took advantage of the situation in the Middle East to carry out, or attempt to carry out, a new conquest of Hungary. It mobilized a vast army of 200,000 men and 5,000 tanks and attempted to drown in blood on? of the finest and most heroic actions in human history.
91.	The response, which we must reassert from this rostrum, was one of world-wide protest. From the countries of the north to the countries of the tropics, from the Atlantic to the Indian Ocean, all humanity shares in the sorrows and the sacrifices of Hungary.
92.	Speaking with incontestable authority. His Holiness Pope Pius XII asked the Soviet Union to heed the world’s outcry. In the deeply moving eloquence of his most recent address, the Holy Father appealed to all peoples to unite for justice and peace.
93.	Dr. Manuel Prado, the President of the Republic of Peru, acting under the authority conferred upon him by the democratic movement which brought him to power and on the precedent of his Government’s participation in the cause of justice in the great war, immediately replied to the message of the Holy Father in these simple words: “I share the anguish of Your Holiness and, in behalf of the Government and people of Peru, I express my firm, determined and absolute support of your call to the Christian and democratic peoples to unite in securing the restoration of dignity and freedom in Hungary.” The Government of Peru, giving expression to the feelings of the Peruvian people, has offered to admit 1,000 Hungarian refugees.
94.	Hungary today is not merely a symbol of the principle of national sovereignty, it is the final and supreme test of the existence of an international system of law. The United Nations cannot silently condone overlook the existence of a system irreconcilable not only with law but with basic humanitarian principles. We must examine the crime committed in Hungary and condemn it, we must join together in unceasing protest and we must mobilize world opinion and the moral forces of the world to compel the Soviet Union to allow the establishment in Hungary of a regime worthy of the Charter of the United Nations.
95.	In earlier days, the wars waged by national armies, because of the type of weapons used, did not threaten the destruction of the world. There was a whole gamut of situations which could be settled and surmounted. That world no longer exists. Today, as a result of nuclear inventions, we are painfully aware of the impending danger of world destruction. It is in this light, then, that we must consider, in all their ominous consequences, the moves of sectarian international policy and the surreptitious manoeuvres of those who mean to secure expansionist advantages by abusing the good faith and good intentions of nations, while these nations exercise patience in their effort to avoid the catastrophe of war.
96.	The conscience of mankind is now rising up against this state of affairs. It has been said — and I have said it here several times — that we small States are as the members of the chorus in a Greek tragedy, impotently watching the approach of destiny with all its tragedy and infamy. But this is not enough: we are unwilling to be mute and impotent witnesses to a tragedy, because we too would be destroyed in such a tragedy. As in the Greek play, all the figures on the stage would be destroyed. This seems to have been overlooked by those who should realize most of all that a spark ignited anywhere in the world can cause a universal conflagration.
97.	Since 1946 we have been attempting to work out a plan for the reduction of armaments. According to Article 26 of the Charter this is one of the special functions of the Security Council. In a liberal and generous gesture, the United States was willing, at a time when it had a monopoly of the atom bomb — the history of the year 1946 should be studied in the version of impartial authors — to share it with other Powers, including of course the Soviet Union, with a view to preventing its use except in self-defence or in defence of the principles of the Charter.
98.	I shall not at this time recall the sorry history of the opposition offered to the United States gesture by the Soviet Union as it pursued the hope of successfully producing nuclear energy while engaging in a sinister race for power. Every compromise of the Great Powers with the Soviet point of view — and to this I can bear witness, for we have been discussing the matter in the Assembly since 1948 — proved to be futile in the face of an evasive policy which one day, by way of an apparent concession, was in agreement with reduction of conventional armaments and the next day turned about and offered unyielding opposition to the supervision and inspection which are indispensable prerequisites not Only to the reduction of conventional armaments but to the elimination of the atom bomb. The prohibition of a bomb without a treaty, without guarantees or without controls is a prohibition on paper, it is a prohibition in theory or in the abstract, it is a prohibition merely for propaganda, purposes.
99.	After long debates and arduous studies and after working actively to carry out the mandate given me by the Assembly when it elected Peru to the Security Council and, by the same token, to the Disarmament Commission, I have reached the following conclusions which I modestly submit to the Assembly: (a) The field of conventional armaments is inseparable from the field of nuclear weapons. Any action undertaken must be carried out simultaneously in both fields, not only as regards reduction preparatory to prohibition but also, and primarily, as regards inspection; (b) Atomic weapons cannot be prohibited by halting production and destroying stockpiles but by providing for effective inspection and control and by granting decisive powers that cannot be paralysed by the veto ; (c) Although the checking of stockpiles is extremely difficult in view of the technical problems involved, negotiations could begin immediately with a view to effecting their destruction on a basis of equality and reciprocity; (d) Aerial inspection cannot be restricted to a specified area, for this would mean that most of Russia and Siberia would still be able to produce and stock nuclear weapons and to erect bases that today, because of effective means of transportation, do not have to be close to the targets against which they are to be used ; it is evident that if the bases are eliminated or placed under supervision, in cases where means of transportation are limited, such inspection would be adequate. However, given modern means of transportation and the fact that the targets are always close, inspection must now be total and absolute; (e) In view of the urgency of the situation — and I would draw the attention of the Assembly to this point — it is imperative, even while a general and comprehensive treaty on the reduction of armaments and the elimination of nuclear weapons is being drawn up, that a commission should immediately be formed to exercise control and to prohibit atomic tests. Such a commission would also be responsible for supervising and co-ordinating the complementary Eisenhower and Bulganin plans and for conducting negotiations with a view to achieving, on a basis of equality and reciprocity, a cessation of the production of atomic weapons and the destruction of stockpiles. A supervisory committee of this type would be a kind of watchman or sentry, an advance guard, so to speak, with the function of solving the most immediate problem, that is to say, control of nuclear tests, for we do not know how far the level of radioactivity has risen in some countries. In some countries, an increase in radioactivity may not constitute a danger; in other areas, however, even the slightest increase might have fatal results.
100.	I do not say that we should commit ourselves to unconditional prohibition, leaving the entire matter to good faith when such good faith is non-existent. Nevertheless, a commission should be set up immediately to control these tests and prevent them from being held, or at least limit their scope. The commission would also have the function of sounding warnings when necessary and it would co-ordinate the Eisenhower and Bulganin plans, since there is general acceptance of the Bulganin plan, that calls for inspection at such key points as railway centres or aerodromes.
101.	I think I may say that there is hope that the Soviet Union will accept the Eisenhower “open-skies” plan. For the reasons I have set forth and by virtue of reciprocity, considering that the United States is willing to open its skies unreservedly and absolutely, there is no reason for the Soviet Union to open only 800 miles of sky to inspection while keeping the vast expanses of Siberia closed. Unconditional acceptance of the Eisenhower plan, without reservations, would be the greatest evidence of good faith and co-operation.
102.	_ To be sure, a policy of reducing armaments and Prohibiting the production of nuclear weapons must never serve as a pretext — or be used as a concession — in order to obtain a free hand iv. matters relating to the sovereignty of nations or to respect for human rights nor in questions bearing on the unification of countries which have been unjustly divided and on free economic co-operation, untrammelled by artificial political barriers and police supervision. The question of armaments must be considered separately and hot as something to be decided in terms of a policy designed to maintain the status qua in opposition to law and morality. We have said on occasion that peace is indivisible; justice, which is the basis of peace, is also indivisible.
103.	We are not trying to establish a new balance of power in order to permit imbalances to occur in the sphere of law. A policy of armaments reduction must go hand in hand with a change in the existing situation in a number of countries, a situation which is the result of circumstances which should never be regarded as permanent.
104.	In the very grave situation now confronting us, we are sorrowfully witnessing the disappearance of the traditions of what was known as peaceful coexistence and of all attempts at understanding. Acts of force are linked with intemperate words and threats that augur grave conflicts. It is therefore imperative that the unsettled problems be resolved and that we overcome differences which may exist between peoples which cherish democratic institutions and spiritual values, between peoples who — in respect of religion, morality and law — speak the same spiritual language.
105.	The harmony of the West is indispensable and it must be restored. Therefore solutions to existing problems must be reached promptly if this harmony is to become a reality. A necessary concomitant of this harmony will be impartial co-operation with all the peoples of Asia and Africa, who are jealously apprehensive of their independence. Such a course is imperative if we are to survive and preserve human dignity. At the, same time, it may be the principal factor in inducing the Soviet Union to change its policy. We have no desire to exclude or isolate the Soviet Union. We want it to be a member of a true brotherhood of man, bound together not only by principles but also by actions.
106.	In another debate, the delegation of Peru noted with satisfaction that the Asian and Arab countries condemn the presence of Soviet troops in Hungary. The Peruvian delegation, on the strength of its unexceptionable line of conduct in the Security Council and in the General Assembly, notably in the most recent situation, feels that it is entitled to address an appeal to all those peoples who cannot themselves be the authors of a policy based on power but who can be the victims of such a policy. The only safeguard for the independence and future of these peoples, other than their own heroism, is strict compliance with the principles of the Charter.
107.	The Charter is not a mere theoretical pronouncement, less so today than ever before. The Charter and the Organization of the United Nations are living entities and constitute powerful moral realities in our day. If the Organization is zealous and courageous in giving effect to the Charter, the Organization and the Charter will be our strength, our shield and our defence. Collaboration by these Powers in a state based on law and making no distinctions of latitude and longitude is the strongest guarantee against the dangers of tomorrow. Let us not imagine that this guarantee lies in a restoration of the balance of power, let us hot cherish dreamy hopes and illusions and let us not place our trust in the false concepts underlying suspicious friendships. The sole guarantee of the independence of small countries lies in their resoluteness, their courage, their sense of justice and their strict compliance with the principles of the Charter. This is why I was deeply moved by the statement of President Eisenhower — who now, his tremendous personal prestige having been reaffirmed in the recent elections, governs the nation which, as foreseen by de Tocqueville, has become the greatest Power on earth — that he cannot conceive of peace except within the framework of respect for the United Nations and the organs of the United Nations.
108.	We therefore have an awareness of belonging today to an institution which holds the fate of the world in its hands. But I hope and believe that the leaders of the Soviet Union will realize it too. Let us set aside the legitimate emotion that may go hand in hand with respect for lofty principles of justice and let us appeal to the understanding of realities often demonstrated by the Soviet leaders. I hope they will realize that, in the prevailing mood of the world where spiritual forces have been awakened and where there is unanimous opposition to all methods of force, it is impossible to pursue a policy which is in conflict with the realities. Blind insistence on such a policy will not be accepted with resignation or silence by humanity or even by the conscience of sane elements among the Soviet people. On the other hand, persistence in this policy will open the way for unforeseen developments, for despair and for unprecedented violence.
109.	Perhaps the conviction will take root in the minds of some that the determination to die with dignity does not lead to the grave but to victory. Neither the Soviet Union nor any other country can set itself up against all humanity. To yield to humanity would not mean to become weak and to lose repute but to fulfil an imperative duty and to be worthy of the highest honour. Since my youth I have cherished the deep conviction that two things are inseparable in a noble life: duty and honour.


===== Session 12 - 1957 =====
First of all, Mr. President, I should like to join the Peruvian delegation's heartiest congratulations to those which you have received from other delegations on your election to the high office of President of the United Nations General Assembly. This is a tribute both to your country - the young and vigorous nation of New Zealand - and to your own qualities as a lawyer, diplomat and statesman, and the contribution which you have made to the United Nations over the years.
17.	Peru has been associated with the United Nations since the San Francisco Conference, as one of the first adherents to the Atlantic Charter and to the Allied cause, inspired by that Charter’s principles and the legal traditions of Latin America.
18.	An important point on our programme has been to bring about the universality of the Organization. After four years' effort, the Committee of Good Offices, established unanimously by the General Assembly [resolution 718 (VIII)] and consisting of the representatives of Egypt and the Netherlands under the chairmanship of the Peruvian representative, succeeded, with the co-operation of many other countries, Canada in particular, in bringing about an agreement on the admission of new Members.
19.	On behalf of the Peruvian Government, I should like to express our goodwill towards all those States which have just joined the United Nations, as well as our regret at the absence of Viet-Nam and Korea, whose unification and presence here justice demands.
20.	The Peruvian delegation also regrets that it has so far been impossible to arrive at any agreement whereby the unification of Germany can be brought about by means of free elections. We have all watched with hope and admiration the rebuilding of the new Germany under the influence of universalist traditions, along democratic lines and in close co-operation with Western Europe. Our ardent wish to complete the representation of Europe in the United Nations must go unfulfilled until a unified and democratic Germany is welcomed into the Organization.
21.	Meanwhile, the presence of new European States as Members of the United Nations opens the way, through those natural ties created by history, shared cultural influences and an identical outlook on life, to that close co-operation between the Latin countries of America and the Latin countries of Europe, which has already been proclaimed as a goal by the President of Peru, Manuel Prado. Very often cultural ties are stronger and more effective than those imposed by geographical proximity and economic relations; similarity of outlook and harmony of ideas and feelings are more likely to facilitate such material relationships than to impede them.
22.	The expansion of the membership of the United Nations has coincident with a consolidation of its authority in a number of serious issues which might, because of the conflict of opinion, have compromised the unity of the Western world and the essential harmony of the countries of Africa and Asia. The great Western Powers’ respect for and compliance with the Assembly's decisions not only strengthened our Organization but gave the world a striking illustration of the gradual growth of universal acceptance of the rule of law. We can state without fear of contradiction that the United Nations has succeeded in overcoming with dignity and justice the gravest crisis in its history. Through the devotion and decisiveness displayed by Member States the special emergency sessions were carried through smoothly. The international police force has worked effectively, and we may now hope to see it transformed into a permanent organ of this Organization.
23.	We should extend our praises also to the Secretariat, whose chief, Mr. Hammarskjold, with the cooperation of his distinguished assistants, was able to complete amid universal admiration and applause the tremendous task set him by the United Nations. The harmony between the spirit animating all the Members of the United Nations and the decisiveness, skill and devotion of the Secretariat will always be a measure of the effectiveness of our Organization.
24.	In contrast with the foregoing, the Soviet Union, with regard to the question of Hungary, has not complied with the Assembly's recommendations which, being based on the explicit terms of the Charter of the United Nations and on treaties signed by the Soviet Union itself, have the character of a legal imperative. The eleventh session of the General Assembly reiterated those recommendations [resolution 1133 (XI)] with the support of public opinion. At the same time, in order to secure their fulfilment, it entrusted Prince Wan Waithayakon, who had directed its labours with such skill, with a task of the utmost importance. The Peruvian Government expresses its sincerest hopes for the success of his mission.
25.	The proposed measures to prevent the danger of surprise attack, such as the "open-sky" plan, which places Soviet and United States territory on the same footing as regards the essential safeguard of inspection; the proposal to cease the production of nuclear weapons under adequate inspection, and the suspension of nuclear tests, together with the reduction of conventional armaments, gave reason to hope that we were nearing an agreement on disarmament. At the time when this appeared most probable, the Soviet Union changed its stand and rejected the earlier proposals, thus bringing about a return of international tension and anxiety.
26.	Mankind had hoped and is hoping now for disarmament as a matter of vital importance. The arms race may lead to universal suicide. It is not possible forever to check the rash impulses of the thirst for power, or to resist the temptation afforded by technical advances.
27.	In accordance with its attitude at previous sessions of the Assembly, the Peruvian delegation will spare no effort to bring about a rapprochement between the positions of the great Powers in order to achieve that mutual agreement which is essential to their own interests as well as to justice and the welfare of mankind.
28.	The Peruvian Government has taken an active part in the debates on the covenants designed to facilitate the enforcement of the human rights recognized by international law. Although this work of legal organization has not yet been completed by the United Nations, we note with satisfaction that in some countries, Peru among them, the exercise of human rights and their enforcement and protection are being secured by all measures consistent with the exercise of true democracy.
29.	The President of Peru said in a recent statement: “With the same firmness with which I fought against the hegemony of the totalitarian regimes personified by the Axis in the last war, I shall continue the battle, together with the Western nations, for the principles of freedom and respect for human rights”.
30.	As regards the technical assistance programmes, the Peruvian Government has pleasure in reaffirming its interest in and support for the work of the United Nations in this field. It likewise expresses its gratitude for the efficient and fruitful way in which these services of the United Nations and of the specialized agencies have contributed to the steady progress of Peru.
31.	At the same time we consider that technical cooperation, important though it is, is only one means towards the establishment of economic, social, political and cultural well-being. We must therefore stress as a principal step the urgency of improving the flow of capital into the countries in process of development. With this aim in mind and recognizing the well-known limitations under which rapidly expanding economies must operate, Peru believes that both national and international action are essential to deal with its economic and social problems.
32.	As regards national action, Peru has already given examples of its energy and good faith in the political and economic spheres. Under a régime of economic freedom, side by side with one of political freedom, Peruvian production has constantly expanded; investments of foreign capital have increased; industry has made notable advances; the credit position remains sound, and currency has been maintained at the same level for almost ten years. All this has taken place in circumstances far from favourable, including an annual increase in population of more than 2 per cent - one of the highest in the world.
33.	We have obeyed the axiom of "self-help" in gaining position we now occupy. However, this position cannot be regarded either as permanent or as offering opportunities for development of a kind calculated to meet all the human problems of the present day in Peru, or the uncertainties of the future. If our country is to solve those problems and at the same time to achieve a justified improvement in the levels of living of a constantly growing population, Peru must have international co-operation in addition to its own already well-tried efforts.
34.	How does Peru envisage such complementary action at the international level? In the first place, there is bilateral action which may take the form of an improved interchange of technical knowledge or the provision of credit or capital for worthwhile undertakings or projects in any country. In the case of Peru itself, my Government believes that such bilateral action should be directed primarily towards ensuring that Peruvian export products - which constitute the principal source of national capital formation - should enjoy fair and stable prices on the world market, not subject to irregular fluctuations, and should not be the object of restrictive customs measures which cannot be said to correspond to the legitimate interests of any country.
35.	Unless we are to risk disillusionment with all the consequences that may entail, there can be no question of the highly industrialized countries encouraging and persuading investors in primary producing countries to invest their capital in increasing the production of specific materials at times of crisis and need and then, when the need for regular and secure supplies has disappeared, adopting a policy which means the ruin of the producers and the collapse of the local investments made with such great effort to secure the necessary increase in production.
36.	In the multilateral field still more remains to be done. In regard to the United Nations programme of action, I should state that the Peruvian delegation still strongly supports the idea of setting up a Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development (SUNFED), since it believes that the demand for capital which may be expected from the under-developed countries would not only absorb private investment but could also benefit greatly from the financial co-operation of an international agency. My country sees no incompatibility between the establishment of SUNFED and the still essential contribution of private capital.
37.	As regards SUNFED, it has been pointed out that the great Powers - which would of course be the major contributors - would have difficulty in agreeing to its immediate establishment while the uncertainty of the international situation still compels them to spend so much on armaments. We cannot for a moment disregard the efforts which those countries are making to protect peace, nor can we deny how burdensome it would be for them to assume both obligations at the same time. However, we should not, in an access of pessimism, condemn to indefinite postponement any action by this international body on behalf of SUNFED. Since the Assembly is agreed in principle on the establishment of SUNFED, and since it has on many occasions expressed the desire to bring about an agreement on international disarmament, we might perhaps examine the possibility of establishing a schedule or stage-by- stage programme of simultaneous measures intended to bring about, in a limited and gradual way, both international disarmament and the accumulation of resources for SUNFED.
38.	In assessing the work done by the United Nations, two important items should be brought out: firsts the Charter itself which, despite its imperfections, embodies the foundations of international life. Second, the firm intention of the great majority, we might say nearly all the Members of this Assembly, to see the Charter effectively applied. Rather than make an overall revision, which would be very difficult to do as matters stand, we must retain and confirm our decision to apply the Charter in a spirit of progress and understanding.
39.	It has rightly been said that the United Nations is not a super-State, a political structure which absorbs national sovereignties. The United Nations is a true family of peoples, constituting a field of contact and consultation where ideas can be exchanged in order to bring about agreements of every kind within the framework of peace and respect for the sovereignty, independence and individuality of all States. There are matters which need to be considered and discussed by the United Nations, in order to prepare the ground and the moral atmosphere for their solution; but there are of course others which require decisions on the part of the United Nations, through its competent organs, in order to safeguard the fundamental interests of peace and justice. In matters of the first kind, the United Nations exercises tremendous moral power because it can centralize, channel and mobilize public opinion. The success of the United Nations depends upon its firm adherence to the fundamental principles of the Charter, its sense of what is timely, and its broad view of the problems arising out of the evolution of mankind. Once again, in politics and in diplomacy, prudence and justice must go hand in hand.
40.	To criticism based on partial criteria or the exigencies of exaggerated idealism, the United Nations answers with these twelve years of untiring effort. What would be the state of the world if there had been no United Nations? We could not have replaced it with the old balance of power which meant the uncontrolled supremacy of the great Powers. The United Nations has embodied, as well as the traditionally powerful nations, the precious contributions of the presence and ideals of the young States. This new element will ensure a balance of power, without the selfishness or exclusiveness of the past, which has already played its part in many cases, and will in future, in determining world acceptance of the rule of law.
41.	It has been a great honour for me to stand at this rostrum. On stepping down, I offer friendly greetings to my colleagues from all the countries so ably represented here, and pay my tribute to the Organization which has done such fruitful work in the economic, political and humanitarian fields and is our hope for an era of peace and justice which will safeguard the greatest good of the greatest number and freedom for all.


===== Session 13 - 1958 =====
88.	I consider it a great honour and responsibility to speak from this world rostrum of the United Nations in the annual debate on the international situation and world order, a debate having as Its purpose the building of peace and understanding among all nations. This duty would be simple enough if I confined myself to discoursing on Peru's mission of peace and civilization on the southern continent; on its accession, from the outset, to the agreements which initiated the juridical organization of Spanish America in the days of the emancipation; and on its unwavering contribution to the establishment and maintenance of the great moral and mediatory power of the United Nations. This duty is, on the other hand, an arduous and difficult one to discharge with all the sincerity that must govern our conduct if I have to take into account the confusion and contradiction of principles and interests, the changeable and unexpected situations which arise, the lassitude and perplexity of the masses in our time, a time described by a European humanist as a difficult era when no one can speak or be silent with Impunity.
89. The anxiety of our age is certainly not without precedent. There have been other times of uncertainty and anguish, of deterioration in ethical and political standards, of danger to the forces of intelligence and freedom, of waves of political and moral violence, both within nations and between them. History shows that the forces of the spirit have ultimately overcome all threats of violence and intolerance arising from destructive self-interest and that, although truth and freedom no triumph completely, it has always been possible, alter Irreconcilable struggles and hostilities, to maintain the fundamental balance of nations within the creative dialectic of humanism and civilization.
90.	Like the gravest of the periods of historical upheaval, this is a time of continuing anxiety in which short periods of comparative respite are followed by others in which the cold war, indirect aggression or surprise attack loom dangerously over the trouble spots of the world. As in the times of the religious wars, the danger of internal and foreign inquisitions again arises, and the bitterness of language and argumentation weighted by dogma are a far cry from the prudence, discretion and courtesy which were achieved over the centuries as the flower of civilization. This time, however, the struggle on the brink of disaster jeopardizes the existence not only of the two powerful antagonists in this tragedy and of the great Powers in the front ranks on each side, but it also compromises the life and well-being of all mankind and Indeed the future of civilization on this earth.
91.	Direct discussion between the great Powers, whether it be on the tragic divisions of Eastern Europe or of the Far East, on disarmament or the discontinuance of nuclear tests, or on spheres of influence, is not bringing about a relaxation of world tension, as we have repeatedly discovered, because those Powers are incapable of agreeing even on an agenda for a conference. The reason is that every step they take, every word they speak involves a question of prestige. Their fear is that any concession, any flexible approach, may be interpreted as weakness by the propaganda of the opposing party. The prospect of a great-Power conference is being obstructed by the fear that such a conference may serve the propaganda purposes of the other side.
92.	This is where the so-called small nations, whose vital interests are as much at stake as those of the powerful States, can play a role and serve usefully as intermediaries. They could consider possible methods and practices for relaxing tension even though that might have to be on a modest scale at the beginning. Of course, some of the problems dividing the world are difficult to settle, for the time being, and some are virtually insoluble. That is true with regard to the peoples deprived of their Independence in Europe, the dramatic case of Hungary, the unification of Germany and those peoples who are seeking international recognition in the Far East. These situations will continue to be of concern to all free men. As, however, genuine and complete peace is for the time being unattainable, an attempt must be made to encompass the cold war by blunting some of the sharper edges and thus opening the way to gradual solutions at some later stage. In the event that the negotiations auspiciously opened at Warsaw should fail, the United Nations should assume its function under the Charter in respect of threats to the peace, since the Security Council has not been given jurisdiction in the matter and is prevented by the veto from taking action. In assuming jurisdiction, the General Assembly might recommend that the parties should refrain from any act of violence likely to aggravate the present dispute over Formosa. That would provide the opportunity for the small nations to plan and work out an agenda for a meeting of the great Powers, restricting it to questions likely to produce agreement, but. with a view to a permanent solution. If that first endeavour should prove successful, however modest it might appear, a great deal would actually have been achieved in reducing the danger of war, in giving some hope to the world and in softening the rigidity of the respective positions.
93.	Accordingly, the Peruvian delegation, in coming to this Assembly, has entertained the idea of proposing that the Assembly should appoint a committee composed of an equal number of members to that of the nations not directly involved in disputes, such as the Afro-Asian States, the neutral countries of Europe and the Latin-American Republics. While it is true that the lust-named category is irrevocably part of Western civilization in ideals, spirit and culture, its members are eminently peace-loving and in establishing the regional American system have provided themselves with the most complete and effective juridical organization for the solution of international problems that exists anywhere in the world. This proposal is not in any way rigid or narrow and is open to all sorts of amendments. Our sole intention is to take the initiative in a useful undertaking based on the necessity stated by my country for the so-called small nations to assume an active and constructive role in world development on which, in the last analysis, their fate and their existence depend. That position was made manifest in America by the President of Peru when he asked that the Latin nations of both continents should be kept informed of Western policy, and by the President of Brazil in his reply to President Eisenhower in launching Operation Pan-America.
94.	The functions of this committee, which would be determined by experts, would be basically to prepare the agenda for a possible great-Power meeting, to maintain contact among the great Powers and to serve as a repository for proposals aimed at reconciling the various positions or bringing about a temporary adjustment which would pave the way for a fair and lasting solution.
95.	The disarmament question is without doubt the most urgent and Important problem before the United Nations and the one which most seriously jeopardizes human progress and the cause of peace. Its solution is essential if there is to be any kind of legal order in the world, for legal order presupposes a regulation and limitation of power. We are living at a crucial time which may lead either to peace and prosperity or to war and universal destruction. Conditions favorable to an agreement may exist, although no definite solution is discernible. There is agreement between the USSR and the West on ceilings for conventional armaments, and the recent Conference of Experts at Geneva showed that an inspection system to detect violations of a possible agreement on the suspension of nuclear tests, which would mean the beginning of some measure of control, is quite feasible.
96.	The forthcoming conference of experts at Geneva on surprise attack has been welcomed by mankind, and the nuclear Powers are prepared to study a system for the control of cosmic space, the conquest of which would be directed to peaceful purposes. The Peruvian delegation took part in the work of the Sub-Committee of the Disarmament Commission and proposed a mediatory body to negotiate on the discontinuance of nuclear arms production and nuclear tests, but It considers that a prohibition not linked to a control organ would be a theoretical, empty and merely spectacular gesture which would appear to the world as nothing more than insincere propaganda. Consequently, the Peruvian delegation, consistent with its position on this question, believes that all measures having any prospects of success-reduction of conventional armaments, land and air inspection, co-operation in the conquest of space — are contingent upon the central problem of the discontinuance of nuclear production and of the stockpiling of nuclear weapons under effective International control. So long as the production of nuclear arms remains under the discretional, absolute or uncontrollable power of a given State or person, the danger of war will continue to hover over mankind, and a small unforeseeable Incident, an error of judgement, a mistake in calculation or even a canard may bring about disaster, even though the opposing parties may not want it to happen,
97.	There can be no denying the importance of economic problems in the development of the morale of nations and in their international position. As the Foreign Minister of Brazil told the Assembly [749th meeting], under-development Is the. most real threat to collective security because it drives peoples and nations into a policy of despair. In Latin America, the danger of defection on the part of democratic regimes arises from disregard of their economic and social problems. In the non-industrialized areas of Latin America, there is an ever greater disparity between the urgent needs of a rapidly growing population and the inadequate development of the resources required to meet those needs. Latin America is anxious to raise its low level of living but will barely be able to maintain it unless sufficient centres of production and sources of employment are created to absorb its growing population, which is increasing at the highest rate in the world.
98. Peru, which as a ration is small in international politics but in area is larger than several European nations combined, is both a rich and a desolate country: arid and barren on the surface, with a scarcity of arable land, but possessing in the mineral resources of its subsoil the fabulous wealth which gave rise to the legend of El Dorado. Its topography, which shows the most unexpected variety, with deserts alternating with mountains and jungle, makes communications and social unity difficult. It is a country lacking in sufficient food where the rate of population increase is no less than 2.5 per cent per annum. As a Frenchman, Professor Baudin, said, weighing the civilizing work of the Peruvian Incas against the challenge of nature, "Everything had been foreseen in Peru except man". The most difficult problem is to feed the undernourished masses of the indigenous population, and an attempt is being made to keep them on their native land through Irrigation systems and the mechanization of farming. After thousands of years of labour, Peru has succeeded in intensifying and extending the development of its natural resources, in building roads across its formidable mountainous regions, in bringing civilization to its Amazon valley and in undertaking projects of such magnitude as the iron and steel and the hydroelectric plant of the Santa. However, like other under-developed peoples, it needs the assistance of international development banks and private investors. Private investments are favoured in Peru by its system of free enterprise and its encouragement and non-discriminatory treatment of foreign capital under conditions that are the most liberal in Latin America,
99.	In addition to loans for financing development, however, Peru — like the other Latin-American countries — must have just treatment and free trade. The prices of raw materials must, as a matter of urgency, be stabilized in relation to the prices of manufactured products. The basic commodities produced in our countries are in fact our money; when the price of basic commodities declines, this means not only a drop in prices but also in the value of the money. Instability and violent fluctuations in commodity prices produce currency depreciation, and this in turn brings on unemployment, under-employment, a decline in the per caput income and bad social conditions. There can be no economic health nor any possibility of private investment or industrial expansion when the currency is depressed. The economic disequilibrium between the industrialized countries and the primary producers is aggravated by such restrictions on International trade as customs barriers, unilaterally-imposed quotas and domestic subsidizing which leads to the accumulation of enormous surpluses and to dumping as a form of economic aggression advocated by the protectionists in the industrialized countries.
100.	This discriminatory policy has affected Peru in a special way as a result of the quotas established for lead and zinc. In contrast to the restrictive effects of such quotas on our trade, there is a growing tendency for great international industrial combines to exploit the living resources of the sea in the South Pacific. The recent establishment of quotas on imports of lead and zinc has been a serious blow to Peru, as these metals are the foundation of Peru's mining industry. The possibility of providing a livelihood for a great proportion of our working population, and of obtaining the means to purchase not only machinery and industrial goods but also essential articles of food, is largely dependent on the unrestricted sale of mineral products in foreign markets. The measure just referred to has had very adverse effects in Peru, leaving thousands of workers without employment and producing losses in foreign exchange. It is seriously damaging to the moral and material well-being of my country and undermines the confidence of the Latin- American peoples in international co-operation.
101.	The protection of the living resources of the sea in the South Pacific is also of vital importance to Peru. The lack of rainfall on our coasts and the infertility of the soil are compensated for by the presence of sea birds which produce guano, a natural manure that has great potency as a fertilizer and is one of the pillars of the Peruvian economy. As a result of the ecological complex of the Peruvian coast, there is a tremendous growth of vegetable plankton harbouring the small fish on which the sea birds feed. The invasion of our coasts by powerful and insatiable fishing fleets with every sort of modern equipment is resulting in the extinction of the fish and consequently in the death of the sea birds and a reduction in the fertilizer found on our coasts. It is also reducing the supplies of shellfish, fish and sea birds eaten by the Peruvian coastal populations.
102.	Therein lies the great importance of the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea that was held earlier this year at Geneva by decision of the eleventh session of the General Assembly [resolution 1105 (XI)], the purpose of that Conference having been to examine new juridical rules which might eventually be incorporated in the international law of the sea, taking into account the geo-biological, economic, technical and human aspects of the problem. It should be pointed out that In this as in other matters relating to international law, the geographical and political patterns created for the Mediterranean civilization cannot be applied to the vast and varied American scene. The classical concept of mare nostrum in the civilization of Europe involves ideas which are out-dated and inapplicable to our circumstances, such as the three-mile limit for the old territorial sea. In the modern world, however, which is the world of Magellan and not the world of Ptolemy, with an Atlantic and a Pacific Ocean and distances as great as those separating Australia and Peru, that is to say thousands of miles, the breadth we claim is necessary to protect the biological and economic interests of Peru's coastal populations. Whatever the decision adopted on this point, the peculiar situation of Peru and the immemorial human rights of its coastal population must be taken into account.
103.	Although the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea did not result in any general agreements, which are very difficult to achieve, it may be said to have made certain innovations in traditional concepts by endorsing the special right of the coastal State to take conservation measures against predators and to protect the living resources of the sea on which depend the food supplies and economic development of the people, without in anyway affecting the principle of freedom of the high seas. The small number of States which have so far signed the conventions prepared at Geneva shows that these agreements have not found general acceptance, nor did any formula obtain a clear majority.
104.	Peru is also deeply interested in the technical assistance work that is being carried on by the United Nations through the Technical Assistance Administration and by the Technical Assistance Board, which co-ordinates the efforts of the United Nations specialized agencies. To this work is now being added the Special Fund for financial assistance, which will soon be established [resolution 1219 (XII)], an idea initiated by the United States at the twelfth session and warmly supported by Peru. The Assembly is now about to give full effect to this project, which will do much to raise the level of living in the under-developed countries in the spirit of Article 55 of the Charter. The Government of Peru is greatly interested in this welcome endeavour and will co-operate to the full in establishing the bodies proposed by the Preparatory Committee so as to enable the United Nations to take effective action in this vast field.
105.	International co-operation for purposes of economic development is based on the principles underlying the world Organization and on the idea, of the mutual give and take of the economically advanced and economically under-developed countries. Thus, the assistance is not unilateral. We therefore hope that at this session the Assembly will establish the body that will give effect to the proposal just mentioned. We are ready to do our part in contributing to the success of this body which will work to the advantage of all the countries which, like Peru, have ample but as yet under-developed natural resources and are at present facing heavy pressure as the result of a greatly increased rate of population growth. The Peruvian Government intends to submit to the Special Fund a request for assistance in developing its fisheries and in providing supervised fisheries credits for the purpose of helping small industrial operators, facilitating scientific research and making possible the purchase of technical equipment that will improve the output and utilization of all the living resources of the sea. In this way, international co-operation would render effective assistance to the fishing industry and would help to improve and vary the Peruvian people's diet through this source of food rich in protein and fats.
106.	It almost goes without saying that another factor contributing to poor social conditions and underdevelopment in Latin America is the armaments race, which unduly and increasingly inflates national budgets as each State seeks to outdo the other. Money that should be spent on improving the health and wellbeing of our people is used to buy war materials which, in view of the harmonious relations prevailing between Latin-American States, is quite unnecessary. Peru is prepared to sponsor a regional agreement which would check the armaments Inflation and the resulting technical, economic and military tension.
107.	The most profound and significant appeal in recent times to preserve the fundamental values of Americanism and maintain continental unity is to be found in the statement made by the President of Brazil, Mr. Kubitschek, in connexion with the so-called Operation Pan-America and the Conference of Foreign Ministers held at Washington in September. This inspired appeal has been referred to as an examination of the collective conscience of the continent and as a crucial battle against under-development. What it really amounts to is a statement that Latin America has come of age, that it is an adult partner in the community of nations.
108.	President Kubitschek called for a more dynamic participation by the peoples of Latin America in world problems and for an end to a period of automatic collaboration in which they played the part of a Greek chorus and were disregarded and ignored. This new voice in the Americas has also proclaimed the economic emancipation of millions of human beings in our continent who live at a sub-human level and has called for respect for our spiritual personality and our own way of life, that is to say, for our cultural values which, without any lessening of our support for universal values, should be preserved, just as political or economic freedom is preserved, against all direct or indirect aggression by other peoples or cultures.
109.	Operation Pan-America was connected with the recent Conference of Foreign Ministers at Washington which, although brief, gave rise for the-first time to a frank and sincere exchange of views between Latin America and the United States. Until recently, the leaders and the spokesmen of the people in Latin America had no direct contact with statesmen from the great Power to the North. We had no information other than circumstantial and brief press reports or popular rumour. We lived, in relation to major world problems, like the men In Plato's cave with our backs to the light, seeing only on the back of the cave the fleeting shadows cast by outside events.
110.	At the Conference of Foreign Ministers the curtain was drawn as we listened to the clear and explicit explanation of the world situation given by the United States Secretary of State, Mr. Dulles, Notwithstanding the rather discouraging events that coincided with the meeting, there was general agreement, in principle, on the need for reorienting and giving greater impetus to economic co-operation and for taking the first steps in that direction.
111.	The greatest and most effective progress was made in connexion with the new system for economic development, and a special committee of representatives was set up to lay the groundwork for the institution recommended at the first Inter-American Economic Conference of Buenos Aires.
112.	Of particular importance is the commodities agreement which is based on the principle that the economic structure of most American republics is such that an urgent solution to these problems must be found through bilateral and multilateral negotiations. This view received the frank and unreserved support of the United States.
113.	Great interest also attaches to the explicit statement that the United States will co-operate in the work of regional economic Integration which Is a prerequisite for the establishment of broad areas of production and consumption capable of subsequent expansion within the general framework of free and more intensive trade,
114.	With regard to its administration, Operation Pan-America, which was based on Brazilian and Argentine proposals, is in the hands of the Organization of American States, a distinguished institution that will undoubtedly be able to make Operation Pan-America effective and will treat its decisions as matters of urgency. It is regrettable, however, that the resolutions adopted at the Conference of Foreign Ministers failed to mention other steps which might strengthen the human bonds between our peoples, make them aware of each other's intellectual and spiritual heritage, promote the dissemination of their scientific, economic and artistic achievements, and further Latin- American disarmament.
115.	To strengthen democracy, every effort must be made to combat ignorance and poverty. This means that the cultural exchange and the technical assistance programmes should be as broad as possible so as to bring about a spiritual integration similar to the economic integration.
116.	At the Conference of Foreign Ministers I had the honour to take a liberal stand — as I have always done — and to advocate equality for all, and respect for the human rights of our workers, whose wages should be equal to those of the workers in industrial countries so that throughout the world, every man may by his labour earn enough to meet his needs in relation to the cost of living. The regional needs and the regional peculiarities of peoples must also be respected and must not be subjected to rigid and uniform patterns. The basis of all international life is tolerance and the prohibition of any injustice or persecution of ideas, for democracy can only be defended with the democratic weapons of intelligence and reason.
117.	If the United Nations is to attain its objective of peace, it must be redeemed from useless conventionalism, dilatory expedients, unfulfilled resolutions and anti-democratic vetos, and it must be set on a truly democratic course. Equal opportunities must be granted to all men and nations, and the human message which is at the basis of our Western civilization must be proclaimed so that this Organization may continue, despite passing perils and anxieties, to serve, through the fruitful interplay of ideas, as the conscience of the world.

===== Session 14 - 1959 =====
68.	The words in which the representative of Peru to the United Nations expressed thanks on behalf of the Peruvian people on being called by a unanimous vote to preside over this illustrious world Assembly reflect the feelings with which all Peruvians, regardless of ideology, have received the news of Victor Andres Belaúnde’s election to the presidency of the General Assembly. By a stroke of good fortune it falls to one who was his disciple in the brotherly atmosphere of our universities to express thanks, on behalf of the master who inspired Peruvian youth with the ariel spirit of his generation and its profound preoccupation with spiritual values, for the signal honour of his election. We Peruvians are conscious that Mr. Belaúnde’s election honours both the man and the country whose age-old culture he so nobly and uniquely embodies. By his unanimous election honour has been done, more especially to one of the great workers of the United Nations from the time of the San Francisco Charter to the present; a commentator and prophet of the destiny of the United Nations; an apostle of conciliation and understanding among peoples; a man whom one of the journalists here at Headquarters has described as "a man without enemies"; yet a man who is the friend of his fellow-men and of tile under-dog. To this Christian humanist the United Nations has seen fit to entrust its destiny at an anxious moment of conflict and crisis. For the United Nations is aware that humanism is an ever-accessible and fraternal attitude and that Mr. Belaúnde, through his zeal both for tradition and for the fascinating query of the future, as well as through his faith, as his own action in invoking Divine Providence suggested [795th meeting], can serve us as an intermediary before God. The tribute paid to the man honours his people, and I wish to make myself the mouthpiece of Peru’s gratitude for this distinction, which, as he has said, redounds to the prestige of our nation and of its mission of equity and social justice, from the organization of the greatest fraternal empire of pre-Spanish times to the plans for continental solidarity and American good neighbourliness nourished by Peru in its days of republican glory.
69.	Peru, situated at the cross-roads of the great highways of South America, has been the meeting-point of all the cultural waves that have swept over the comment and has received, along with an evident talent for synthesis and spiritual friendship, the legacies of all the peoples of the world which it has absorbed spiritually to the adornment of its culture. It fused the lore of the indigenous American peoples and the Asian civilizations, whose mysteries and superstitions are interwoven with the primitive Peruvian mythology, with European lore and what is termed western civilization, itself an amalgam of values from Greek and Christian tradition along with the moral teachings of the Orient and Arabic humanism — the metaphysical anguish of biblical thought, Confucian civism, the human tenderness of Buddhism or the "non-violence'' policy of India, an outlook in harmony with the mentality of our indigenous people. Later on, Peru added to that wealth of philosophical and human experience the ethical contribution of Spain and the co-operation of history’s great travellers — the peoples of France, Britain, Italy, Germany and later the United States — who taught us to discover the secrets of nature and gave us our first humanized view of the cosmos. In exchange for these gifts Peru, in fulfilment of its humanitarian destiny and its mission of universal brotherhood, gave gold, which revolutionized Europe’s economy; the potato, which enriched the diet of the humble; quinine, which served to abate noxious fever; fertilizer to fructify sterile lands; and coca to alleviate human suffering and "open the jewelled gates of paradise".
70.	All these things are brought to mind at once at this moment through the presence in the Chair of this Assembly of a man who represents my people’s loyalty to the ideals of peace and brotherhood for which the United Nations stands. On behalf of my people and my Government I express to the representatives of Latin America and to those of all the peoples that form this Assembly the gratitude of Peru at this honour to a man of peace-loving Latin America.
71. Since the last World War, the United Nations has been making an incalculable effort of legal and political organization in order to build and maintain peace among the peoples and to resolve by flexible and effective means the inevitable conflicts between States; and through the essential elements for the fulfilment of this task have so far been woefully lacking, it is encouraging to note that the work of the United Nations is growing and broadening, becoming crystallized in rules which are the highest expression of international life and law today and are reflected in a basic feeling of confidence among all peoples and a universal awareness of their potential value and practical possibilities. In the contemporary evolution of international law it has fallen to the United Nations to transform the status of man, hitherto regarded as the subject or national of a State, so that he has come to be treated as a human person and as the principal subject of international law. International law, as influenced by the United Nations, now exists and functions mainly through the great institutions established to foster health, labour, culture and freedom, inspired by ideas of social solidarity and fundamentally in the service of man. On this foundation a concern has grown up for the human well-being of under-developed peoples and for communities of peoples in all regions of the world —  a concern based not upon their geographic location or political importance but upon their potentialities for economic and cultural improvement with a view to the achievement of civilization.
72.	Within this fundamental concern for man as a human being whose life and welfare demand the elimination of the risks entailed in the invention of nuclear weapons and the tragic possibility of their use, the question of disarmament confronts the great Powers and the small countries alike as the most pressing international problem of our time. It is an all- embracing problem upon which converge or abound which revolve all other international issues. It is a moral, legal and psychological problem vital to the world. The problem of disarmament is inseparable from the problem of control. Control is the essential means to the end. Disarmament is indivisible, for it must cover at once conventional and nuclear armaments. The cult of armaments and the arms race are a danger to the people of the world. Consciousness of might stimulates instincts of covetousness and domination, and prompts internal and external acts of aggression. Economically it signifies budgetary inflation, greater poverty and social upset.
73.	Both at the time of the Paris discussions and in the Disarmament Commission, the Peruvian delegation has maintained that this question should be settled, not by assertions based purely on theory, but in a practical and realistic manner. Disarmament should not be left to the free decision of Governments but Should be subject to an effective control body dealing with both conventional and nuclear weapons. Both the discontinuance of manufacture and the gradual destruction of existing stocks should be subject to control, which is a legal necessity. Today, in the case of all multilateral agreements, there is an organization to ensure that they are carried out. If a system of control were not set up immediately, simultaneously with the disarmament agreement, it would mean that the most important international treaty of all would lack an organization to ensure that it was put into effect. We all agree that faith in the genuineness of disarmament must be restored, on the basis of something tangible and unequivocal, and this can only mean effective control. Moreover, a disarmament treaty is a technical natter where the assistance of experts is required it is to be put into effect; and that can only be ensured through a system of control.
74.	The suggestion has been put forward here that armies must disappear. Such a measure would perhaps be sound in large countries, with highly-developed police systems. But the purpose of an army is not merely to defend the independence of a country against external aggression, but also to maintain law and order. In the American countries, the army has an educational role; it makes good citizens of outcasts from society; it instructs the people; and it helps to inculcate a sense of social discipline. Furthermore, it performs a technical function, in that it explores and maps the country, builds roads and promotes economic development.
75.	Nevertheless, we in America must put an end to the armaments race, which has spread to us from Europe and which, if the army does not confine itself within its proper sphere, will bring in its train the same dangers as it does in Europe and encourage under-development and the rise of autocratic rulers.
76.	Both last year and this year, despite the continuing tension between the two blocs and the irreconcilable antagonism existing between their respective ideologies, the United Nations has succeeded in keeping the peace in the explosive areas of the Near East, though a state of affairs inconsistent with the rules governing international relations continues to exist in the Suez Canal, and policies of force still prevail in Korea, Hungary and more particularly in Berlin; furthermore, the spectre of a new threat of discord has made its appearance with the violation of the frontiers of Laos and the incursions of Communist China into India and Tibet.
77.	Every effort made to bring about a narrowing of the differences which relentlessly divide the two great forces now in conflict and to solve the problems arising from their rivalry is worthy of all praise. For this reason, the conversations between the Soviet Union and the United States through their foremost statesmen have been sincerely welcomed by all the peoples of the world.
78.	At the same time, peoples living in various parts of the world have, either spontaneously or with encouragement from others, made known their desire for independence and sovereignty or for the recognition by the United Nations of their right to a separate existence.
79.	The States which signed the United Nations Charter are one in their desire to form an association, based on the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples, with a view to fostering friendly relations among all nations. The only prerequisite for joining the community of nations is to be a peace-loving State, prepared to fulfil in good faith the obligations contained in the Charter, to settle their disputes by peaceful means and to refrain from the threat or use of force.
80.	The solution of the Cyprus problem, which was a victory for the conciliatory spirit shown by the United Kingdom, Greece and Turkey and for the power of truth, was a promising step forward; so too were the words of a hero of the liberation of Europe when he spoke about the future of the peoples of North Africa.
81.	Generally speaking, world opinion on all these problems is divided, under the influence of propaganda, and the same fairness and moderation is not shown in judging each individual case. When it is a matter of invasion, of the subjection of peoples who have lost the freedom that was their immemorial right as a result of violent aggression and the control of their affairs by foreigners, mild references are made to gradual solutions and to the need for a period of waiting, and there are endless delays in reaching a just solution. On the other hand, drastic and urgent solutions are insisted upon in connexion with disputes which have either been artificially stirred up and threaten duly constituted States, or which, however much they may be intended to promote noble and spontaneous desires for freedom, have been planned or envenomed by outside influences, not with a view to ensuring that international justice shall prevail but in order to bring about strategic changes which would further economic interests or power politics. War thus carried out on behalf of someone else is no longer a war for principle or for faith, but a war of interests waged in the name of anti-democratic ideas which hold the dignity of the human person in contempt and aimed at securing control of strategic zones. Such wars disregard the real interests of the peoples concerned, pay no attention to their fate and make no attempt to ensure that the change they seek to bring about is to the peopled advantage. It is a curious and inexplicable fact that people like the Hungarians, and now the Tibetans, who have been the victims of aggression, have no advocates and benefit by no propaganda over the radio, and their troubles are not placed in dramatic prominence, despite the fact that the one is a heroic people of exemplary Christian culture and the other is heir to one of the oldest of all cultures, one which has influenced the moral wisdom of the world.
82.	Another problem which has engaged international attention is the Suez Canal situation and the measures taken by the Egyptian Government, under the pretext of a state of war and contrary to the general principles of international law and the 1888 Convention, to interfere with the free passage of ships trading with Israel and even with that of goods and mails destined for that country.
83.	As the Government of a law-abiding country that upholds compliance with international rules and obligations in accordance with the classical tradition of international law, the Government of Peru, which is linked to the Egyptian Government and people by longstanding ties of admiration and even of historical parallel between their ancient cultures, would like to echo the hope already expressed by the representatives of the Great Powers that the age-old freedom of the seas — one of the first and great achievements of law among nations — will be restored, in that part of the world. As heirs to the Spanish legal tradition which proclaimed the inalienable sovereignty of the peoples of America, we cannot but recall that -the Spaniard Francisco de Vitoria, regarded by the American, Brown Scott, as the father of international law, upon first establishing jus inter omnes gentes, i.e. the first principles of the law of nations, declared that all people had the right to travel to another country and to trade with it without restriction of any kind and that preventing them from so doing was one of the few possible grounds for a "just war" between peoples. Thus freedom of trade and friendship between nations, re-stated by the Dutchman Grotius in his book De jure belli ac pacts in 1625, is one of the essential prerequisites of peace and law among nations.
84.	As regards the offer just made by the President of France to the population of Algeria, which accords with the spirit of the United Nations Charter and resembles that made by the United Kingdom to Cyprus, we believe that other countries should refrain from interfering with this proposal in order not to prejudice the policy of conciliation espoused by France. Peru, in conformity with the explicit statements made by its President as the proponent of an association of all those countries which share the Latin heritage and regard France as an irreplaceable and eternal factor in world culture, reaffirms in the case of Algeria its position in favour of the self-determination of peoples and, at the same time, its faith in the moral course of a people that has been the guide and teacher of western civilization and has given all the peoples of the world a lesson in freedom and democracy.
85.	In contrast to the divided West, the Latin American countries, while imbibing the guiding principles of that civilization, its juridical and historical ideas, its tutelary institutions and its fundamental tradition of humanism and while seeking to overcome the forces of dissolution and catastrophe which threaten the destiny of the West, have asserted over more than a hundred years of independence their will to unity and their conviction of a common destiny. It has been said, perhaps unjustly, that the continent of Europe has ever been torn by strife and warfare while America, in contrast to the pride and cupidity of the Old World, has emerged as a continent of harmony, an asylum for the unrealized ideals of Europe, a utopia where man may perfect himself, or to quote the preamble to the Charter of the Organization of American States, a "land of freedom". In the words of Alfonso Reyes, "America is the name of a human hope" or, as Bolivar said, "America is not a problem, or even a fact: it is a sovereign and irrevocable decree of destiny".
86.	All the peoples making up the inter-American system, as their spokesmen have stated in this Assembly, are inspired today, as in the era of emancipation, by a common will to co-ordinate their activities and their interests, the economic potential of their 200 million inhabitants and their enormous reserves of raw materials and man-power, so that through their regional organization all this may be placed at the service of the entire human race. It is a project of universal scope which derives from our ethnic and cultural origins. The unity of Latin America based on a common language, religion and way of life, has crystallized at the international level in a series of ethical principles, Christian and humanist in their essence, which go to make up a series of laws asserting the triumph of right over might, the elimination of power politics and the conviction that civilization and war are incompatible. The peoples of America have been united solely under the spur of peace and they seek not only to uphold and consolidate peace on our continent but also to extend it, if possible, to the all too often blood-stained frontiers of Europe. Apart from their devotion to peace, the Latin American countries, imbued as they are with the highest spiritual concepts of the West, have, from, the earliest days been keenly aware of the need to uphold the fundamental values of freedom, equality and social justice. It was in the Spanish colonies of America that a statute based on the equality of all men, without racial discrimination, was first drawn up, and from it springs the democratic spirit of our peoples and the solidarity with all the peoples of the earth which we have cultivated through the floods of immigrants to our shores. Thus inter-Americanism is based not only on the will to co-operation and peace but also on the determination to overcome selfishness and exclusiveness in relations with other countries and to defend at home the democratic regimes born under the banner of peace, freedom and the popular will and dedicated to the protection of human rights.
87.	It has been stated over and over again that, if the basic principles underlying inter-Americanism are to be preserved, the American regional system must be strengthened, and its spokesmen, like those of the other smaller Powers throughout the world, must be heard and consulted when decisions affecting peace and the destiny of mankind are taken.
88.	The most vigorous efforts made along these lines So far have been Operation Pan-America and the recent Conference of Foreign Ministers at Santiago. The former, which had its origins in a grave crisis springing from profound social and economic Ills, took shape in the dynamic initiative of Mr. Kubitschek, the President of Brazil; when he so rightly made his inspiring appeal for an "examination of conscience" which would shed light on the causes of the crisis and revitalize the Pan-American system through a reaffirmation of the fundamental juridical and economic objectives it is seeking to attain. At the political level, Operation Pan-America was essentially a declaration that the Latin American peoples had come of age and wanted to make a more serious contribution to world peace, that they wished to be heard and consulted on problems of world interest rather than remain in the background or provide a mere chorus of approval as in the past. The great importance of the Brazilian President’s proposal lay in his recognition of the fact that the basic problem of inter-Americanism and an integral part of the problem of peace and collective security is the under-development, the pauperism of the American peoples, harassed by scarcity of capital, the instability of markets and commodity prices, the sub-human living conditions of their indigenous peoples and, above all, the enormous contrast between the level of living of workers in the industrialized countries and the hungry, poverty-stricken workers in the raw material producing countries. The Brazilian Presidents far-sightedness envisages a plan to remedy the tragic economic inequalities of Latin America.
89.	In the realm of social justice, no close moral and political co-operation can exist between such profoundly and tragically differentiated communities as the countries of Latin America and the great industrial Powers. It was impossible to establish solidarity and join in a common struggle So long as living conditions were so unequal, hence, before the political problem could be tackled, the economic problem had to be solved, and this has become an international and strategic problem until such time as the gulf separating the more fortunate peoples and those who lack wealth and technical resources is bridged. The Brazilian President’s timely appeal culminated in the Conference of Foreign Ministers held at Washington in 1958 which adopted measures to strengthen the inter-American economies, ensure the stability of markets and commodity prices and increase opportunities for private and public investments. This last-named vital requirement in its turn led to the establishment of an Inter-American Development Bank, a common objective of our peoples which had long been under discussion. It is fundamentally in the interest of the peoples of Latin America, constantly threatened as they are by quotas, subsidies and dumping, to uphold the principle of multilateral negotiation with regard to any change in their trade relations, as established by the Conference of Foreign Ministers at Washington, and to continue to recognize the decisive importance for the future of America of both Operation Pan-America and its most recent offshoot, the Committee of Nine setup at Buenos Aires to defend our weak economies against the onslaughts of the great monopolies of capital and technical skill and to keep alive the close solidarity among our peoples which the crusading zeal of Operation Pan-America brought into being.
90.	At the Santiago conference, America’s dedication to democracy was reaffirmed in unanimous declarations proclaiming the fundamentally democratic character of the inter-American community and the need to defend human rights and the exercise of  representative democracy in the Americas. It was unanimously agreed during the discussions at Santiago that the Organization of American States was more than a mere grouping of States, that it was an association of peoples who wished to establish a system of economic and political relations that were both equitable and mutually advantageous, based essentially on the democratic ; principle of the sovereignty of the people. Although no {drastic and specific measures against dictatorship were taken, in spite of the vehement wishes of some nations recently liberated from tyrannical rule, an effort was made at Santiago to isolate the resistant virus of dictatorship and to find an antidote for it. In this connexion, it is encouraging to note that there was agreement on defining, in terms of positive law, the characteristics of democratic Government as opposed to dictatorship. The conclusions reached will make it possible to outlaw from the American system any Government whose power does not derive from the people or which has not won the specific approval of the masses as the hallmark of its democracy. This is yet another contribution by the American countries to the policy of peace, co-operation and harmony among peoples. The democratic system, deeply imbued with the notion of the dignity of the human person, is the system best fitted to protect mankind against the mumbo-jumbo that from time to time seems to drive man, to whole-sale calamity and destruction. Democracy is a militant ideal of peace and social justice, which rules out the possibility of war and strives for co-existence and friendship among men.
91.	Our countries are richly endowed with natural and human resources, yet they are faced with a growing population pressure and continually increasing needs, and they lack adequate financial resources and stable consumer markets. On this occasion, as often before, the Peruvian delegation wishes to stress the need to free our peoples from the economic cold war between the great industrial monopolies and the underdeveloped countries, and to recognize man’s right to social justice, which we have underlined in previous Assemblies in the interest of the welfare of our people and the security of our continent. We demand a better way of life for the workers in the Andean regions. Living in one of the most bleak and barren areas of the world, they are the victims of chronic malnutrition, and they claim the right, in accordance with accepted international principles relating to universal human rights, to equal pay for equal work, and to fair wages that will give them and their families adequate standards of living and safeguard their health, welfare and human dignity. We stress the basic objective that the labourer is worthy of his hire equally in all latitudes, regardless of speculative operations on stock exchanges and world markets, and that those who in the face of the great challenge of nature on the American continent are engaged in the most exacting forms of human activity, should receive wages on a par with workers in the more developed countries.
92.	One of the problems created by competition in trade and the ever-increasing expansion of the great monopolies is the problem of the sea. For several years now it has been the subject of fruitless hairsplitting at conferences and in sub-committees, and it has been raised by Peru on a number of occasions, notably at the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea at Geneva in 1958, as a subject that vitally affects the human rights of the people living along the Peruvian coast. At the thirteenth session of the General Assembly [767th meeting], I gave a detailed account of Peru’s position in this dispute among the large commercial fishing companies, which come long distances to the Peruvian coast and there disturb the natural biological complex created by the cold Humboldt current, the anchovy, the guano bird, the fertilizing guano on the coastal islands and the barrenness of the soil on the Peruvian coast — happily compensated for by the natural fertilizer deposited on the islands. Because of the existence of this biological complex, the fish resources of the coastal waters of Peru have to be protected in order to safeguard the agriculture of that area and the food supplies of its people, who from time immemorial have been dependent on the fauna and flora of the neighbouring waters. Here again, Peru and all the Latin American countries call for the abandonment of the self-centred European standard, by which the territorial sea is measured in terms of the dimensions of the Mediterranean and of the world as it was known to Ptolemy. Such standards cannot be applied to the vast expanse of the Pacific between South America and Australia, in the heart of the World of Magellan, where the rules and ways of life that arose round the ancient mare nostrum are completely out of place. Peru does not claim that there should be any universal rule on the rights of coastal States over the maritime zone that provides their food supplies and the basis of their economic life, but it considers that special standards should apply to coastal States which can claim special geographical and biological circumstances, to enable them to regulate and control fishing off their coasts, not for the purposes of commercial profit, or at the risk of interference with the freedom of the seas, the freedom of the air or freedom of trade, but with the sole object of protecting the vital and immemorial rights and human welfare of the people of the Peruvian coast. In this connexion, we wish to express our grateful appreciation of the constructive position of the Danish representative, foreshadowing an easing of the old rigid standards of the law of the sea.
93.	Ever since the San Francisco Conference there have been suggestions, justified by the fact that all human institutions inevitably grow and develop, that the United Nations Charter might be amended in a number of ways with a view to restating the principle of the Organization’s universality and the sovereign equality of all States, and reviewing the respective powers of the General Assembly and the Security Council, above all the right of veto, which the smaller States wish to see changed, but which is jealously defended by the great Powers. Ever since the San Francisco Conference Peru has been opposed to the institution of the veto in the Security Council, as being prejudicial to the principle of equality and to the moral and legal principles on which our international Organization is founded, and moreover because the political interests of the great Powers can never have greater importance than the safeguarding of international peace and security. The veto should not be allowed to paralyse or hamper the proper functioning of the United Nations in settling disputes among States. Until such time as it is possible to amend the letter or the spirit of the Charter, it is to be hoped that these restrictive powers can be circumvented, as they have been on recent occasions, by the intervention of the General Assembly or by emergency measures dictated by an immediate danger to peace.
94.	The smaller nations wish to live in peace and, as the representative of Belgium has said, to co-operate "on a basis of conciliation of ideas and interests instead of the brutal hegemony of a single Power" [809th meeting, para. 54], They do so notwithstanding the situation in a world of growing ideological disputes and of power politics as demonstrated by expansionist moves and flagrant aggression. These conditions and the ever-present nightmare of the cold war are responsible for the prevailing atmosphere of fear and anxiety. As has been ably demonstrated during this debate, if the wishes of their peoples are to be met, the representatives of these countries placed in an unfavourable position in the existing conditions of economic and political inequality must make every effort to ensure that truth shall prevail, unsullied by biased propaganda and outside the clutches of factions or cliques. Their efforts must conquer the secrecy, concealment and collective pretence that hamper the knowledge of truth and prevent a denunciation of the evils from which the poorer, handicapped countries are suffering.
95.	This Assembly’s chief task is to reveal, discover and restore the true position of our peoples. Above all, it must not allow itself to be conquered by fear or emotional impulse. It must keep politics serving the cause of peace, free from the restraints of fear and hatred. It must seek only that which will contribute to a life of peace and justice because civilization, in the words of Ferrero, "is man’s gradual conquest of primeval fear", and because a peace based on fear, a cold peace, is not true peace. As Pope Pius XII has said, "co-existence based on mutual fear and distrust does not deserve to be called peace".
96.	If the United Nations does not wish to become a sham, it must develop among peoples the broadest spirit of co-operation and international solidarity, and secure a fair balance of rights and duties within the broad inter-dependence which binds the peoples of the earth. It must do away with violence, man’s subjugation of man and sterile hatreds; the only goal of trusteeship it can accept is that of the free, considered, equal sharing of the wealth of the earth and the fruits of culture by all nations.
97.	Above all, its chief purpose should be to redeem modern man who is frustrated and insecure, relentlessly subjected to the forces of self-interest and instinct, submerged in the mere enjoyment of the moment, burdened by a mechanized civilization and soulless technology, obsessed by success and the impulses of sex and money. By a process of education and culture he must be returned to the forces of generosity and virtue that justify and transform life — the disinterested search for truth and love of beauty and of mankind, which help to save man from the tyranny of mass and the machine, to instill in him a sense of measure and order and to free him from fear and enslavement of the mind. Thus will the world be rid of violence and the policy of destruction and barbarism.
98.	In addition to its political and economic activities, the United Nations should do more for culture and mutual understanding among peoples, two factors which contribute to knowledge and unity. Thus, it should give UNESCO the means it needs to combat illiteracy and promote every form of cultural and spiritual exchanges among peoples, particularly among the young people who are forced to live a hectic life, as Jaspers says, amid the din of eroticism and transitory ethics, faced with, degenerate forms of art and literature. A sense of spiritual understanding among the young peoples of the world, leading to the discovery of a synthesis of the revolutionary and the traditional under the beneficial influence of co-operation and renewed faith in the great values of civilization would not only bridge the deepest rifts that separate men, but by bringing closer together nations which have seemingly antagonistic spiritual values that do not appear to lend themselves to reconcilement, would help them to find a cultural, human affinity that might produce a solution valid for all men and for all parts of the world. Such a solution might lead to a reconciliation of the cultures that have divided mankind into two opposing camps and produce a new formula of Christian and liberal humanism through which liberty, equality and fraternity
may come to reign in a true sense among the peoples of the world.

===== Session 16 - 1961 =====
﻿ADDRESS BY MR. MANUEL PRADO, PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF PERU
1.	PRESIDENT PRADO (Peru) (translated from Spanish): My visit to the United States in my capacity as Chief of State, made at the kind invitation of its President, would not be complete if I failed to come to the United Nations to reaffirm Peru's fidelity to the principles by which the Organization is guided and Peru's support of the valiant work it is performing.
2.	The consternation produced throughout the world by the tragic death of Mr. Dag Hammarskjold, the Secretary-General, still hangs over the Assembly. This soldier of peace lost his life in the pursuit of the noble mission to which he had devoted himself with such integrity and competence in recent years and his death is an irreparable loss to the world. Let my first words, therefore, be an expression of respectful homage to his memory and of praise for his work and his ideals.
3.	My country was one of the first to sign the Atlantic Charter and it helped to influence public opinion in America in favour of the Powers which were fighting to prevent the triumph of the Nazis and their philosophy of life.
4.	We warmly welcome the convening of the San Francisco Conference at which the foundations of this Organization were laid. We viewed its establishment as the extension to the whole world of the legal principles and the concept of solidarity which our Republics had joined in fostering since the time of the struggle for independence and which had been reaffirmed by the Pan-American Conferences. Peru contributed to the inclusion in the San Francisco Charter of provisions for the protection of human rights and the principle of self-determination of peoples and to the statement regarding the inviolability and faithful observation of treaties and international obligations in general.
5.	Although, in order to save the Organization, we were obliged to accept the so-called rule of unanimity of the great Powers in the Security Council, we did not resign ourselves to the prospect of a powerless Assembly vis-à-vis a paralysed Council, but thereupon proposed that the Assembly should be notified by the Secretariat when the Security Council ceased to be seized of a particular item. This proposal paved the way for General Assembly resolution 377 (V) entitled "Uniting for peace", which was adopted in 1950 and under which the Assembly may be empowered to deal with matters relating to world peace on the vote of a simple majority of the members of the Council or of the Members of the Organization.
6.	Peru, as a founder member of the Organization of American States and as a Member of the United Nations, has always demonstrated its determination, which it takes this opportunity of reaffirming, to comply strictly with the provisions of the Charter by which our Organization is governed, as also with all the international obligations imposed upon us by pacts among the American States, the validity of such obligations being conceded in the Charter itself, Article 52 of which provides for recognition of regional arrangements.
7.	With justifiable satisfaction I recall that, during the sixteen years the United Nations has been in existence, there has been no action relating to peace, to the halting of aggression and the punishment of the aggressors, to economic development and international co-operation, which has not had the strong support of the Peruvian, delegation.
8.	We are now reaching a crucial point in the development of the United Nations. The great strides being made in technical and economic co-operation, in the development of agriculture, in labour and in science, contrast sharply with the retarded pace of progress towards the solution of such vital problems as the threat posed by atomic armaments and the effective implementation of decisions of the Council or, if it fails to take action, of the Assembly.
9.	The very survival of the United Nations depends today on our finding the correct approach to these problems and solving them without delay. The attention of the entire world is anxiously focused upon them.
61	A/PVa1014 
10.	Owing to the circumstances which then prevailed, the delegations assembled at San Francisco were' obliged to consider the position of the great Powers at a time of transition from the old political order to the fully established rule of law. This accounts for the unanimity rule in the Council and many other features of the Charter which give special privileges to the great Powers.
11.	But the march of events and the eloquent lessons of the past few years make it plain that this period of transition will not last much longer. Its end is dictated not only by economic inter-dependence but also by the dangers inherent in nuclear weapons. Mankind has before it a dramatic choice between, on the one hand, the dangers and uncertainty inherent in a policy based on the so-called balance of terror, entailing the risk of universal destruction by accident, error or miscalculation and, on the other, the wise and courageous acceptance of a system of international law which would make it impossible for any State, however great its economic or military power, to evade its obligations.
12.	In the past, history consisted of a series of wars which, although they involved a number of Powers, were limited both in their scope and in their effects; furthermore, they were separated by long periods of peace. Today, however, war cannot be localized nor can the havoc it creates be limited. Every conflict is fraught with the danger that at any moment wider interests may become involved and the old instinct to dominate may find expression in the unrestricted use of all the weapons of destruction which science has put into the hands of mankind.
13.	Today the atomic problem cannot continue to be the subject of interminable debates in which, as a result of the adoption of indefensibly anachronistic positions, the discussion follows a wavering course of advances and retreats and keeps coming back to the original difficulties. Everyone wants these weapons to be outlawed, but outlawed under complete control. Such control should not be limited merely to certifying that certain weapons have been destroyed; it is imperative that it should also include the inspection of the military equipment which remains intact and which constitutes a potential danger. It must be added that a system of control that could be paralysed by the exercise of the veto in the control body would give rise to mistrust and if such a system should unfortunately be adopted, it would inevitably lead to a new conflict and the destruction of life on the planet. Efforts have been made to eliminate this device in the Council; it should not operate in the organization of the Secretariat either, for it would lead to the paralysis of that body, making it totally ineffective. The veto, whether in the Council, the Secretariat or a body concerned with disarmament, could be used by a Power as a means of evading its international obligations.
14.	Within the framework of respect for the equality of States and compliance with the principle of united action, there are many ways of ensuring that the resolutions adopted by international bodies are fair and wise, and do not impair the interests and rights of either the great or the small Powers.
15.	The experience gained provides a basis for converting the so-called International emergency force into a permanent body so that it can guarantee collective security and thus make its contribution to the general good.
16.	A system of this kind, operating on a universal basis, is essential to peaceful coexistence. It implies the application of the principle of self-determination of peoples in all parts of the world, not only in the continents where new States have emerged but also in Europe, implies its democratic implementation by means of periodic free elections guaranteeing the rule of freedom and justice and respect for human rights. In this way more than one of the serious problems now pending, such as that of the unification of Germany, could be solved to the satisfaction of the conscience of mankind.
17.	This problem should be settled as a matter of urgency in order to remove from the international scene a continuing source of unrest which affects all countries and which constitutes a flagrant injustice to the German people, who are undeniably entitled to decide their own fate, particularly as the right to reunification was formally proclaimed by the Allies shortly after victory was won.
18.	The tragic times in which we live give immediacy to the principles on which this Organization is based, principles which sum up the efforts and achievements of our culture over a period of centuries. I should therefore like to take this opportunity to call for the effective application of these principles in all continents, including, of course, America. It is essential that in all the countries which make up the membership of the United Nations there should be true internal freedom, which does not exist where people are victimized, where blood and tears flow and sorrow afflicts every home. It is essential that peoples should be able to develop their material and spiritual potentialities in a climate of democracy, without oppression or fear, and that the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights should be respected.
19.	Today we cannot conceive of peaceful co-existence merely in the negative sense that a state of war has not been declared. We consider that peaceful coexistence is incompatible with psychological warfare, hostile propaganda, support of subversive movements or attempts to foster, directly or indirectly, the difficulties which other peoples may encounter in the process of their development. Coexistence, if it is to be termed peaceful, calls for understanding, sympathy and a mental outlook which finds expression in frank and loyal co-operation of every kind and in the renunciation of all claims to political supremacy. I say this because the concept of the total triumph of one system over another implies domination, which is contrary to the spirit and the letter of the Charter and to the exigencies of the age in which we live.
20.	On more than one occasion the Peruvian delegation has drawn attention to the contrast between the industrialized and the non-industrialized States. While the industrialized States enjoy a high level of living, nearly two-thirds of the earth's inhabitants are underfed, deprived by illiteracy of the benefits of culture and a prey to demagogy and false revolutionary ideas. The United Nations has unremittingly urged the great Powers to devote whatever funds they can to the development of the non-industrialized countries. The duty of the privileged nations to assist other countries has been brought into sharp relief by the United Nations and the Organization can serve as the most effective instrument for the fulfilment of that duty.	^
21.	While action to help solve the problem of industrial backwardness can be taken within the general framework of the United Nations, the Organization cannot but welcome the efforts which the great Powers have made on their own account to solve the urgent problems inherent in underdevelopment. Thus there is bound to be general satisfaction at the "Alliance for Progress", initiated thanks to the vision of President Kennedy, an alliance which has just been hailed in the Declaration of Punta del Este and through which American solidarity, already based on common principles, is to be given practical effect as a result of the undertaking given by the United States to supply long-term financial aid and the undertaking given by the Latin American countries to carry out with firmness and resolution the economic and social reforms which their circumstances and their development require.
22.	During the last two wars Europe was able to rely on the moral support and the resources of the American countries. Now that Europe has been rehabilitated, the Governments of the European countries are co-operating in the solution of the most urgent problems confronted by Hispano-America and other regions as they pursue their development. If economic aid projects and related efforts are to have the desired results, it is imperative that we should enjoy the benefits of order and international tranquillity.
23.	One might say that this hope is justified by a tacit plebiscite. I am sure that if a world-wide referendum were held, it would reflect overwhelming support for this aspiration which is cherished by all the peoples of the earth.
24.	In conclusion, I should like to pay a tribute to all the members of this Assembly and to the Secretariat for their unwavering efforts to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Charter. I should like, in particular to congratulate the President on his unanimous election, which constitutes recognition of his outstanding qualities as a statesman.
In addressing this august gathering, I am fully aware of the repercussions which my words may have and I pray God that they may prove to be a true contribution to the work which the United Nations is doing to promote justice and peace.


===== Session 17 - 1962 =====
I should like, first of all, on behalf of the delegation of Peru, to congratulate you upon your well-deserved election to the high office of President of the seventeenth General Assembly of the United Nations. Your election reflects a full recognition of your abilities and of your long years of devoted service to the United Nations and to the International Court of Justice. Your colleagues can bear witness to your consummate knowledge of law and to your deep devotion to the United Nations.
162.	In my dual capacity of naval officer and Foreign Minister, I consider it an honour and a responsibility to address you from this rostrum on which the eyes of the world are riveted, an honour to represent my country and to be heard by statesmen from all parts of, the world and a responsibility I assume in sneaking in this debate, which takes place each year for the purpose of making a constructive contribution towards world peace and human progress.
163.	One is invariably confronted by a dilemma in deciding what to say in such an august Assembly as this. There is a choice between the easy path of generalities and the usual courtesies or, on the other hand, an examination of conscience in which the image of the United Nations as it existed and still exists in the hopes and aspirations of peoples is compared with the actual reality of its functioning. After due deliberation, I have opted for the second and harder course.
164.	I should like to reaffirm here the hopes and the faith that were born in me many years ago at the time the United Nations was established. My conscience as a professional officer and as a human being having been revolted by the horrors, cruelties and disasters visited upon the peoples of the world by the war, I conceived a profound hope which I continue to cherish today in the fundamental concepts which inspired the United Nations and in the great principles on which it is founded and which are valid for all time.
165.	Despite the course of events and the difficulties confronting us it continues to be my Sincere and unshakable conviction that the only effective means of achieving the real peace which the peoples of the world seek and which they deserve to enjoy is to remain faithful to the high ideals which, at a time of stress and turmoil, breathed life into the United Nations.
166.	In San Francisco in 1945, statesmen and nations, still stunned by the impact of a fearful ordeal, filled with remorse for the disasters that had occurred and shocked by the extent of the physical devastation and personal loss, displayed intelligence and foresight, proclaiming forcefully and unequivocally the basic principles to guide mankind towards peace and an international rule of law.
167.	Peru, which was one of the first countries to accede to the Atlantic Charter and which helped to shape the United Nations, has remained faithful to the world Organization's principles and has been guided by them in its domestic and foreign policies.
168.	It is precisely in defence of these principles that Peru recently resolved a serious crisis brought about by an attempt to frustrate the will of the people by giving them a government which would not have been a lawful one. The oriels was resolved as a result of the intervention of the armed forces, which, in an institutional development without precedent in our history, set up a government providing for the full exercise of civic rights solely with a view, to the holding of genuinely free elections as provided in the Constitution.
169.	At the present time, Peru is a country which ensures the full enjoyment of human rights, complete freedom of the Press and political opinion, respect for government institutions, strict compliance with its international obligations and the enforcement of a sound and firm fiscal policy which has created the confidence necessary for adequate protection of the country's domestic and foreign credit position.
170.	The open and complete support we have received from the entire nation provided the most conclusive democratic justification for our action;
171.	But if there is a determination throughout the world to adhere to the rule of law advocated by the Charter, how is it that today, seventeen years after the establishment of the Organization, the Secretary- General finds it necessary, in the Introduction to his annual report [A/5201/Add.1], to remind us that there is a "crisis of confidence" in the United Nations? ban it be that we are capable of glimpsing the much desired goal, but incapable of making the sacrifices which we must make in order to attain it? That is the question to which I should like to. address myself without losing sight — as no military man can do — of the basic objective, namely, the achievement of international peace and security.
172.	It is my firm conviction that, without modifying the concept of the sovereign equality of States which is characteristic of present-day international society and without denying or under-estimating the importance of power or conceding that the creation of an authority superior to the State itself (call it a super-state or by any other name) may detract from the independence of the State, genuine peace can be achieved and that it can be achieved through observance of the principles laid down in the Charter. I cling to that conviction despite the vigorous resurgence of power politics and the sharp political and military division of the world into two hostile and apparently irreconcilable camps.
173.	Consequently, I shall examine these vital principles of the United Nations not in, but against the light of the sombre developments of our time.
174.	First, there is the principle that peace is indivisible, which does not only mean that no nation, great or small, can escape the consequences of war even if it should break out in the most remote corner of the world. No its meaning goes much further. As the Charter states, the purpose is to eliminate all the various causes and differences which bring about wars. The real aim is to reduce the disparities in wealth and opportunity between nations, disparities which are being greatly accentuated by modern scientific developments. The advances of modern science are steadily widening the gap between the powerful, industrialized nations and the impoverished, under-developed countries.
175.	In a world in which science has advanced to the point where it is possible to produce enough for everyone, the principle of the universality of peace demands the speedy elimination of this obvious cause of conflict.
176.	The instruments with which to do so exist in the United Nations. Resolute international co-operation — not lip-service to that principle — can be used with positive results. That is why I warmly support the appeal made by U Thant, our Secretary-General, that we should rededicate ourselves to promoting "social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom" during this United Nations Development Decade.
177. I agree with him that never before in history have there been greater opportunities to meet this challenge, since we hold in our grasp the moans with which to eliminate progressively want and disease and to build a world free from fear. But, unfortunately, that growing capacity is being put to unprofitable use in a competition which is becoming increasingly stubborn and dangerous. Huge sums are being heedlessly spent on preparing for, anticipating or preventing an appalling holocaust in which mankind may destroy itself by means and as a result of its own scientific discoveries. If those sums were spend on raising standards of living, on satisfying urgent priority needs, on meeting the steady and increasing demands of many, many peoples, we would be working genuinely and effectively for world-peace and tranquility, for the happiness of peoples and better mutual understanding, one of the basic objectives of the United Nations.
178.	It is to that end that I wish to convey to you here the aspirations of my country, which is aware of its difficulties and determined to resolve them as a matter of urgency. Faced with a population explosion and with the need to bring the indigenous masses living on our steep mountain-sides into step with the twentieth century and to wage a constant struggle against illiteracy, our people are beginning to clamour more and more loudly for the progress and the wealth which they know exists elsewhere. I should like to re-echo their cherished hope — and it is not theirs alone, but that of the overwhelming majority of peoples. This non-urban proletariat is awakening and demanding more effective action in the realm of international co-operation. The United Nations cannot fail to heed that demand.
179.	We know that much has been accomplished in recent years. We are grateful for the assistance we have received, both on a direct bilateral basis and through the United Nations. We are making good use, in all our enterprises, of the assistance we receive from the Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance and the Special Fund, to which we are especially grateful. We have also continued to seek aid from the specialized agencies which are in a position to provide us with funds and we must say that we have met with a favourable response. Nevertheless, and despite other important programmes of regional scope such as the Alliance for Progress and the Peace Corps, we feel that time is gaining on us and that larger quantities of capital goods are essential for our development. We know that the progress we have been making is not sufficient, although in some cases, in that of fisheries, for instance, we have achieved surprising success and by our own efforts alone. For that reason, I must stress that the United Nations, in the Implementation of its purposes and principles, must intensify its efforts and its co-operative activities and must not rest until it has reversed the present trend towards an accentuation of the differences between the poor and the rich nations.
180.	Even more promising and appropriate than technical assistance and aid schemes would be action in regard to the terms of trade with a view to remedying the continuous — and. I would almost say intentionally produced — decline in the prices of primary commodities, which are the staff of life of the poor nations. This Is a definite threat which the United Nations, as an agency for international co-operation, must overcome if it is to survive as an effective guardian of peace. It is in this field that the rich and industrialized great Powers can give better and more effective proof of the sincerity of their resolve to assist peoples which have not yet reached their level of economic and industrial development.
181.	Without effective and rapid international efforts to bring about energetic and unstinted co-operation, both external and internal peace will be endangered. Being convinced of this and realizing the danger of social upheavals, we who are close enough to the peoples to hear their demands and can foresee the consequences wish to dray/ urgent attention to these perils and their possible repercussions and to call for immediate remedial action.
182.	Against this background of legitimate aspirations looms the dark shadow of the sharp division with which the United Nations is confronted as a result of power politics. On this matter, the Peruvian Government has defined its position and its ensuing duty in accordance with the inter-American conventions. It will never deviate from the principle of pacta sunt servanda which is embodied in the Charter and which forms the very basis of the international order and of peaceful coexistence under law.
183.	In the opinion of the Peruvian Government, specific questions, relating to continental solidarity are primarily the concern of the American regional system. It was with this end in view that the system was created. This opinion is in keeping with the letter and the spirit of the agreements in force. Consequently we cannot but take offence when others attempt to interfere in matters which are our own concern, matters which can be understood and properly assessed only within the continent itself. The principle of respect for the domestic jurisdiction of States, which is laid down in the Charter and which, in the form of the principle of non-intervention, has marked features of its own in our American system, can certainly be invoked by the regional systems against anyone attempting to bring to their shores ideologies which they reject or to discuss situations which they alone are competent to deal with. Let it be borne in mind that an attempt by outsiders to split asunder the oldest and strongest of the regional systems would not contribute to the cause of peace or to the harmonious coexistence of peoples.
184.	This same principle of non-intervention is fully valid in regard to direct, relations among States. Any attempt to bring before international conferences or to interfere in any other way in "matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any state” is contrary to the friendly relations based on respect, for the personality of States, advocated in the Charter. This immutable principle does not conflict with the democratic principles spontaneously adopted by the Western peoples in the course of their glorious history.
185.	I have mentioned the principles of the United Nations, which have permanent validity. I recognize that the maintenance of peace is also facilitated by the procedures available to all of us for the solution of conflicts. This will always be the obvious and appropriate place for talks, debates and negotiations. But these are means whose effectiveness depends on the spirit and the intention in which they are used. When they are employed for propaganda, polemics or results, they are harmful, and defeat the purpose for which they were created.
186.	These pacific means have enabled notable progress to be made towards a better understanding, among countries and In the application of the principle of self-determination of peoples. As a result, we can today greet the many new States whose presence among us gives genuine universality to the United Nations.
187.	The Peruvian delegation is proud of having worked to promote this universality. In recognition of its efforts, the Assembly conferred on it the chairmanship of the Committee on Admission of New Members.
188.	In this spirit, we welcome with brotherly affection the new Members, whose arrival here is a major event of the twentieth century, just as American independence was of the nineteenth.
189.	It gives me particular pleasure today to address cordial greetings to Rwanda, Burundi, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago, whose admission on the opening day of the session is of particular significance.
190.	We thus have some idea of how world tranquility is enhanced by compliance with the guiding principles of the. United Nations. We cannot, however, close our eyes to the violent re-emergence of power politics, that traditional and direct cause of armed hostilities. Today, that policy finds its clearest expression in the so-called cold war, which remains a cold war because of the terror which the new weapons strike in the minds of all sensible and reasonable men. But this feeling, being negative, is far from being a certain safeguard against the use of these weapons, especially if the bitter competition to invent a more destructive weapon continues uncontrolled.?
191.	Common sense shows us the way to follow. The United Nations must tirelessly continue its efforts until it finds a solution enabling the contestants to make a halt in this insensate race, before the present unstable balance is destroyed.
192.	The fear of war and the present balance of power do not, however, prevent the existing profound Conflict from, producing serious local crises. Today we have Berlin and Cuba, but there are many other possible trouble spots. We must recognize that each one of these crises brings mankind to the brink of an apocalyptic holocaust.
193.	Being part of the democratic, Western, Christian world, we feel it incumbent upon us to make a fervent appeal for an understanding that will permit all men to live without fear, under law and with mutual respect.
194.	The principles and the means to ensure the maintenance of peace exist. What, then is lacking? That is the agonizing question which is ever present in our minds.
195.	This reminds me of the opening words of the constitution one of the specialized agencies of the United Nations, words which are becoming increasingly firmly imprinted in my memory. The truth that shine through them makes them worthy of repetition; "Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defences of peace must be constructed." It is obviously this — a true spirit of international understanding, a high awareness of the unity of the world and the brotherhood of man — that we need today.
196.	Our anxious times call for the affirmation of this international spirit, this desire for peace. The task is not an easy one, for it requires the accommodation of particular interests to the general welfare, but it can be-accomplished without any sacrifice of dignity or well-being. To sing the praises of peaceful coexistence and international co-operation is not enough. We must be able to approach each other with open arms and with minds ready for understanding without such action being interpreted as a confession of weakness.
197.	Fortunately, there are auspicious signs.
198.	The Church whosefaithlprofessoffersus.in the Ecumenical Council which is to meet shortly, a demonstration of a readiness for reconciliation, for overcoming outstanding differences and for bringing about a close communion of all Christ's children. It is thus, renewing the tremendous vital force which it has possessed for a thousand years and which certainly does not rest either on the power of money or on the strength of arms.
199.	It is also encouraging to see the solitary figure of a Chief of State, a hero who remained upright in the stress of battle, today place his pure patriotism in the service of a firm friendship between two nations whose bloody wars have punctuated the history of Europe and of the world.
200.	A similarly encouraging sign is the settlement reached with regard to New Guinea, to which the Secretariat of the United Nations made such an effective contribution.
201.	Here again, as in any other part of the world, we shall need the true international spirit if we wish to spare our peoples and all mankind a bitter disappointment which would make them lose faith in the ability of their leaders and in the value of the institutions they have created.
202.	I assumed the responsibility of addressing you in order to make. this, appeal to you and to reiterate my faith in the fundamental principles of this Organization.
203.	This is the message of peace which a military man wishes to convey to this eminent gathering of statesmen and diplomats.


===== Session 18 - 1963 =====
Mr. President, I should like first of all to convey to you on behalf of my delegation and myself our very sincere congratulations on your election as President of the General Assembly for this session. It is an honour not only for you yourself, in recognition of your outstanding qualities, but also for your country, Venezuela, cradle of the Liberator, and for all America. We are sure that in discharging the responsibilities of your high office you will guide the discussions with your characteristic wisdom, intelligence and energy. For all these reasons, Mr. President, accept once again my heartiest congratulations.

135. It is a great honour for me, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Peru, to come to this rostrum, for the United Nations is a magnificent embodiment of the international democratic spirit and an expression of the desire for peace felt by all the peoples of the globe. I bring to this forum both an assurance of Peru's heartfelt friendship and the news of profound economic and social changes being wrought in my country by the Government of President Fernando Belaúnde Terry. This new administration is striving to overcome, by legal and democratic means, the excessive and increasing inequality which exists in my country, as it does in other developing nations, between the haves and the have-nots. That, to us, is the meaning of democracy. It consists not only in respect for legal forms, but also in respect for the legitimate ideals and aspirations of the people, who are desirous of achieving full social justice.

136. I have not come to make these remarks in the general debate as a mere formality demanded by tradition, and I trust you will not regard them merely as a customary gesture, but will see that my desire is —in moderate but unambiguous language— to go to the very heart of some of the basic problems relating to the social and economic structure of my country and to convey with all the clarity of which I am capable my Government's firm intention to overcome them. I feel, however, that I would be failing in another of my duties to the General Assembly if I did not also place these problems in the world context of the United Nations, with a view to sharing with countries and regions similarly afflicted the experience we are now acquiring in the process of facing up to our difficulties. And as I speak of our own affairs I wish to ask you all for understanding and help, for it is only through international solidarity that we can lay the groundwork for a new and more humane world order, with greater justice for all.

137. It is not therefore my intention merely to analyse an international policy with which the Assembly is already familiar, since —with Peru's contribution— the United Nations has written its own history; I have come to this rostrum to say that my country, in accordance with the will of its people, of which the Government is the interpreter and which the Government is prepared to carry out, has started on its march to conquer the future. In this endeavour it hopes that it can count, like other countries in a similar position, on the collaboration of the industrialized countries, a collaboration which is indispensable if Peru is to progress beyond its present level of development and overcome within a reasonable space of time its worst ills, which are bred by ignorance, disease and poverty.

138. This, I believe, is the very place in which we should speak of these matters and in which we are entitled to be heard when, as in the present case, we have a vital message to convey. The Charter signed at San Francisco recognizes the legal equality of all our nations and, in a lofty spirit and in beautiful language, calls for social justice. At its third session held in Paris, in 1948, the United Nations proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights [resolution 217 (III)]. But as we look at reality we see that this is not enough. Entire continents —represented with distinction in this hall— are a prey to poverty and illiteracy. There is a stark contrast between the ideals enunciated in the Charter and the Declaration, and the brutal reality which we cannot deny and which we are pained by and ashamed of. We have attained legal equality, but no more than that; and we cannot rest content with this achievement because we are dedicated to an unremitting struggle against injustice —for human rights look beautiful on paper and are comforting as an ideal, but to try to implement them can be most discouraging.

139. We cannot achieve peaceful coexistence on the international plane as long as we allow profound inequalities to exist within our countries. We shall not have world peace unless we first achieve peace within our own boundaries, where it is directly threatened by economic imbalances and social injustice, We cannot possibly expect brotherly relations among the nations unless we first develop them within each nation. Such national brotherhood will not emerge until the day on which we guarantee to every person, his inalienable right to education, health, housing and paid employment, and a practical possibility of satisfying at least his minimum needs in that regard.

140. We do not expect the solutions to come entirely from abroad, for we are aware of our own obligations and of the need to discharge them. But we require help, for our economy is not strong enough to cope single-handed with the great problems we must resolve. We are suffering from the impact of a population explosion which has some alarming aspects. For reasons rooted in the distant past, the obstacles in the way of our economic development can hardly be overcome with our own limited economic and technical resources alone. We need help —help which takes the form, not of a largess, but of sincere, whole-hearted and generous co-operation, since we have sufficient natural resources successfully to overcome our difficulties. We realize that backwardness —a condition from which all the world's nations suffer in one way or another— is essentially a many-sided problem and must be attacked from many sides. Consequently, each nation must undertake its share of the common task, playing its strategic role in the campaign against the ills which beset us all. Peru is ready to do its part in a vast co-operative effort. Now that its entire people has expressed its will to be the master of its own destiny and the architect of its future security, my country hopes to receive such help in order to meet its acute and urgent needs and to be able to contribute its due share to the collective endeavour for world peace.

141. While at first sight these might seem to be political principles, they are actually ethical concepts, valid throughout the history of mankind and through the length and breadth of the world.

142.	It is the purpose of the United Nations, in accordance with its Charter, to achieve justice through international solidarity and peace through spiritual and material progress. Having thus briefly summarized the main objectives of the Organization, I should like to digress for a moment to tell you that in Peru, one of the founding Members of the United Nations, there has recently been established a new order which seeks to attain the same goals and which in so doing may cause profound repercussions in States with a similar economic and social structure.

143.	The newly constituted Government of my country directs its policy towards the elimination of an evil which we consider one of the most serious in the world today: the excessive and growing inequality between the rich and the poor. To meet our people's legitimate desire, which brooks no delay, we are seeking to correct this imbalance and to bring about true, genuine social justice. But we shall not change this situation or combat this great evil by violent or arbitrary means. We are a law-abiding State, a sound democracy. In attacking it, we shall scrupulously observe the rules of law and ethics, and we are therefore engaged in carrying out basic structural reforms in the organization of the State, the machinery of government, the methods of production and the system of land tenure and cultivation.

144. We appreciate the fact that every nation in the process of development must mobilize all the forces within its territory, both in the public and in the private sector, in order to do away with poverty in all its forms and manifestations. That is what we are doing in Peru, and our effort must surely be of interest to a world organization created for that same purpose. Continuing a tradition bequeathed to us by one of the two great civilizations which between them have shaped the Peruvian people, we are organizing work on a community basis for the general benefit. Turning to our past for inspiration, and using modern techniques, we have revived in our country that collective activity, that popular action, which made the Inca Empire great and to which, in large measure, it owed its remarkable triumph over its hostile and forbidding natural surroundings. This is no passing whim; we are guided by the need to turn the wise lessons of history to good account, so that a future full of hope and glowing prospects may open up before us.

145. With this end in view, it has been decided to organize in the provinces of the Republic central stations for machinery, tools and equipment, to be used by the people on a co-operative basis. There will be shoulders put to the wheel, for the benefit of the community. There will be a fine collective effort, to which the State will contribute technical guidance and supplies in the exact amounts needed to make the most of the labour supplied by the people of villages, hamlets and towns.

146. Local roads, aqueducts and schools will be built, and a multitude of other projects will be carried out which the central Government, were it forced to rely on its own scant resources, would take years to complete. The people themselves are asking us for work, for useful undertakings, for culture. They show a desire for progress which is deeply moving, palpable and full of promise. Crushed by poverty and bogged down in ignorance, they do not ask for weapons in order to revolt, but for tools in order to work for a better and more just fatherland. Can it be that Peru, with its traditional customs and its common problems, is the only nation eager to solve its difficulties in this manner? I wonder whether this idea does not bear within it the seeds of progress and collective wellbeing which should be harvested by the United Nations and then broadcast to the vast under-developed regions of the world? We are discharging a duty of international solidarity in bringing these plans before the General Assembly so that, through its agency, they may be communicated to other nations at a similar, or lower, stage of economic and social development.

147. Progress in agriculture is a sine qua non for the improvement of national levels of living. Peoples living under archaic land systems cannot be expected to advance. For this reason Peru, which for centuries has suffered from the ill effects of just such an antiquated
system, is now shaking off this dead weight which hampers its progress and is embarking, with an unshakable resolution, on a country-wide land reform.

148. It should be noted that Peru intends to carry out this reform by lawful and democratic methods. Neither violence nor arbitrary rule —let me repeat— are instruments of good government. To effect substantive changes in the system of land tenure and cultivation, adequate provisions have been adopted, worked out in technical detail and peacefully implemented. The Government has formulated administrative measures which are to be carried out at once, and has prepared a land reform bill which awaits the approval of the Parliament. It believes that it will thus take a long step towards rescuing the masses from the pauperization in which they have been held by exploitation and ignorance for many years.

149. This reform is not an end in itself, but a sound method of raising the people's level of living, giving them back their dignity and making of them a determining factor in the nation's economic activity. A process of accelerated industrialization is out of the question unless we first, or simultaneously, develop a population of consumers, whose purchasing power will give impetus and a raison d'etre to the industries we develop. That can be achieved only through a radical alteration of the land system, a first step in the search for a better life and in the moral and material advancement of man.

150. We shall attempt at the same time to reform enterprises, that modern means of channelling commercial, agricultural and industrial investment capital for purposes of collective progress. We deem it essential to humanize them, to improve relations between capital and labour and to give adequate participation to the technicians, employees and workers whose skills and exertions contribute to the process of production and the creation of wealth.

151. We believe in the system of free enterprise, so long as circumstances permit, and our legislation protects and safeguards the domestic and the foreign investor. We shall improve our laws in this regard, inasmuch as a country such as Peru, starved for development capital, needs to attract and stimulate industrialists with a sense of social responsibility and progressive views.

152. But we believe also that, precisely because they hold such views, foreign investors must understand the new role they will be called upon to play in the economic and social evolution of the communities which welcome them with open arms. It is no longer enough that foreign enterprises in the developing countries should comply with fiscal and social legislation. If they are to play their proper role, they must go further; they must, in the broadest and most positive form, engage in reinvestment and diversification of activity, especially when, as is true in most cases, their present scope of activity is limited to the exploitation of non-renewable resources. While an industrial process which exhausts natural resources may benefit the State, in essence it despoils the heritage of future generations. We have no right to engage in it unless we replace by other means the wealth we thus extract.

153. Let us who live today merit the blessings of our descendants by the wisdom of our policy, the fore sightedness of our actions and the justice of our laws! It is within this Organization, upon which centres modern man's desire for justice, that we must make this appeal, and we make it without any mental reservations or misgiving, with the sole intention of recommending, for the good of all, what we have learned from the inexhaustible store of our own experience.

154. Taxes are not, and should not be, solely a means of raising for the Treasury the funds it requires. They are also a means of securing justice by distributing the burden fairly among the various groups which constitute society. Moreover, taxation is an effective means of economic development and social improvement, since it can be used to organize production, to stimulate activities which are in the public interest and to discourage activities which promote the interests of individuals or single groups. In the process of national economic development, tax reform is of paramount importance because of its social significance. Aware of this, the new Government of Peru has also undertaken a reform of the national tax structure. The purpose is, without slowing down the normal activities of industry and trade, to promote justice in the private economic sector which has so powerful an effect on the life of a nation.

155. In addition, with equal resolution and with the same desire for justice, the Peruvian Government has started what it calls a "credit revolution" —a policy of democratizing credit by bringing it within the reach of the needier classes for important social purposes. Hitherto in our society money, in the form of credit, has been a privilege of the few. In these circumstances, it was impossible to launch a policy of economic development for the benefit of the underprivileged; consequently, the "credit revolution" has the merit of restoring a natural order of things by making credit, through a reform of banking resources, accessible to the great masses of the people who urgently require State assistance in order to be able to satisfy their basic needs for family comfort and a better life. This is an important part of the message I have come to convey, one I could not omit from my statement in the general debate, since it shows the Peruvian Government's determination to effect a peaceful revolution, in conformity with the principles which are enshrined in the United Nations Charter.

156. To sum up this portion of my statement —before I turn to the system of outside aid which will have an enormous influence on the evolution of our economic development policies— permit me to say that in our view the resolution of our crisis depends in large measure on the new spirit with which the peoples of America and, I would venture to say, all non-industrialized nations, are imbued.

157. This new spirit depends on three factors: (a) a realistic, courageous, prudent and dynamic programme of changes that must be made; (b) resolute, intelligent, patriotic and generous co-operation of the moneyed and educated classes, conscious of their duty in the world of today and of the imperative need for structural changes; and (c) the co-operation of the people, such as I have described, consisting in the mobilization of all the inhabitants of the country, in all regions and in all occupations, to work shoulder to shoulder for the common good, under the slogan dictated to us by our pride in our ancestors: popular action.

158. We are confident that, because of Peru's traditional culture and patriotic unity, we can rely on the help of the classes which have been in the past and are today responsible for the development and the economy of our fatherland. This joint effort would represent a genuine response of the soul of the nation to the exigencies of these historic times. In the past few years, in an endeavour unprecedented in our political history in this century, our present Chief of State visited every village in Peru, with its grim, desolate and inhospitable terrain, in a pilgrimage the purpose of which was educative rather than political, the object of which was to spread the truth rather than to gain political adherents. The self-abnegation, the sincerity and the constructive spirit of that campaign fired the people with enthusiasm, and they responded nobly, offering their labour and their energies to build a better and more prosperous country under the leadership of a new, revolutionary, and deeply Christian administration. It is an honour for me to say these things on this solemn occasion so that the world may have a better understanding of the meaning and scope of a regenerating movement, the admirable effects of which are destined to make themselves felt beyond our national borders.

159. Passing to the international plane, I must state that my Government considers the extensive cooperation between the industrialized and the developing countries to be the best way of preventing the benefits of the astounding triumphs of science and technology from being concentrated in a few privileged and prosperous areas with a low birth-rate. That would increasingly worsen the plight of the poor regions which, paradoxically, have the world's highest birth-rates. Unless something is done along these lines, the multiplication of the human race which, according to the canons of religion, may was called upon to undertake, will become a malignant growth, like cancer which multiplies the morbid cells in an ailing organism. And this cannot be allowed to happen.

160. History teaches us that the magnificent Graeco- Roman civilization was destroyed by struggles between rich and poor in the republics of antiquity. It would be blind stupidity not to bear this lesson in mind and to prevent any recurrence of this phenomenon, at the international level, resulting from the contrast between the abundance enjoyed by some and the backwardness besetting others. International co-operation is certainly one of the noblest undertakings of our times, but it is also the most beneficial for all. It cannot be said to operate in one direction only and to benefit only the needy. International co-operation, which benefits the developing nations, also contributes to the progress of the other nations and serves to strengthen world peace, which is an unqualified blessing for all mankind.

161. The division of labour, in the sense that certain peoples always act as suppliers of raw materials for others who produce manufactured goods, is now an unfair, obsolete and unacceptable concept. As a country becomes industrialized, it increases its capacity not only to produce but also to consume a larger and more varied quantity of goods and services. This means that in due course there will be greater and more efficient economic activity in the other countries which preceded it in the industrial stage of evolution. The examples of Canada in relation to the United States of America, of Australia and New Zealand within the Commonwealth, and of Europe as a whole within the Common Market prove that it is in the interest of the powerful countries to have prosperous instead of indigent or wretched customers. No one can be happy when surrounded by others who are unhappy, and no one can live in safety close to explosive areas. Hence co-operation for economic development is one of the major guarantees of world peace.

162. This co-operation is feasible and desirable only if the country which needs it most has made the necessary effort and taken the action required to overcome the difficulties created by its under-development. Only when it has shown its will to do so can it, in all decency, expect international co-operation without jeopardizing its complete independence. In America a great regional plan has emerged —the Alliance for Progress— to which the United States, in accordance with its well-conceived policy, is contributing its financial and technical assistance. The Head of the Peruvian Government, recognizing the merits of this endeavour, has, however, expressed the friendly but frank opinion that it is essential to divest the Alliance of the excessive red tape in which it is caught up, and to dispense with the rather exaggerated desire for perfection, typical of commercial banking, which has so far impeded assistance and the financing of development. It is essential to ensure that this great joint undertaking has the dynamism and technique which the urgency of Latin America's problems requires.

163. Our Government has also drawn attention to the desirability of planning economic development at the regional level, without prejudice to the aid given to certain individual projects, because, while there are circumstances peculiar to every nation, there are also requirements shared by all of them which could and should be faced together in order to avoid the dissipation and squandering of economic and technical resources. In this connexion, it is our view that spreading economic assistance to an excessive degree over projects which sometimes compete with each other might lead, among other harmful consequences, to the wasteful dispersal of the limited resources available to the international credit agencies.

164. Let me refer to one important example to clarify my ideas on this subject. A few moments ago I spoke about land reform. Now this aspect of economic and social development offers an excellent opportunity for planning on the regional scale and for assistance in the form of international credit. For the Latin American nations the agrarian problem is a common denominator which enables them to think of common solutions. If land is to be expropriated in order to correct the defects of the ownership system, then fair compensation must be paid to the owners. This is proclaimed in our constitutions. But it is difficult to pay the price in cash because of the magnitude of the expense involved and because of the danger of inflation which it would create. Payment in bonds is the solution generally adopted in the poor countries. However, a bond is a security which is subject to the many vicissitudes of depreciation which may convert the original fair price into a final unfair price. And that is not the intention of the law. Thus mistrust of payment in bonds weakens the effectiveness of the reform, because our countries have fragile economies in which the risk of devaluation is always present owing to unforeseeable political or financial factors. Here is where international co-operation should play its part, and for this purpose we have proposed the establishment of an international institute of regional credit, the purpose of which would be to organize the joint backing of all countries of the continent for the national bonds issued in respect of each land reform; and we also propose, if this is feasible, the exchange of national bonds for international bonds which would, in their turn, have, as a guarantee that the obligations of the issue would be complied with, the collective backing of a system of great economic capacity, namely, the Alliance for Progress. In this way, on the basis of credit and without the movement of capital, the Latin American countries as a whole, intent on solving the common problem of land reform, can have recourse to an effective method of international co-operation which does not involve the fragmentation of the credit agencies' resources thanks to the material and moral solvency of an international organization established for the purpose.

165. The foregoing explains our position as regards the need to ensure that economic development plans are financed, to an increasing degree, at the continental or regional level, in order to avoid, as far as possible, the dispersal of funds. We also think that assistance in the form of credit should, in the light of national experience, be provided in various ways and assume different forms. Thus, for example, the financing of local projects through municipal authorities enables us Latin Americans to make use of bodies with which our people are closely familiar, Again, in a given country regional requirements which cover a wider radius have in modern times led to the establishment of governmental or semi-govern- mental organs with a large measure of autonomy, their own juridical personality and wide executive powers. They are therefore eminently suited to supervise the execution of regional economic development projects efficiently and at less expense. Lastly, projects of national proportions and scope call for planning at the State level, and credit should therefore take the form of loans to the Government, or to bodies recommended or vouched for by the Government because of their competence and wide fields of action.

166. But we must not speak of projects for material progress as if they were the sole factor contributing to human advancement. We must also devote attention to the raising of cultural and educational levels through international co-operation. An example of this would be the campaign to eradicate illiteracy, a monstrous evil which spreads over most of the world, the elimination of which should be tackled like a world crusade through the United Nations. We ought to plan an aggressive campaign for this purpose, a campaign against ignorance, in which we could pool our efforts in the ruthless struggle to stamp out this blight. There are, of course, specialized bodies of the United Nations already dealing with the problem, but we still fail to see, and perhaps it is partly our own fault, the giant strides forward that we all expected from the dynamic action of these bodies.

167. As regards the financing of development and technical assistance to the developing countries, cooperation on a much vaster scale must be forthcoming from the European countries, the creators of a great universal culture and the instigators of the technological revolution which has, for the last two centuries, led man to triumph over nature. The present wealth and astounding success of these nations, after the catastrophe of the war, show how much mankind can expect from such a vast reservoir of energies and skills.

168. But neither the United States of America, nor Europe, nor the highly industrialized countries of the world in general will provide effective assistance unless, at the same time, they eliminate from international trade the factors which depress the prices of raw materials and restrict the markets for them. Statistics show conclusively that the tremendous losses sustained by Latin America in the last few years owing to the deterioration in the terms of trade are far greater than the amounts received as credit for development. This being so, it must be stated in all frankness that the assistance is unrealistic, false and misleading. What will it avail the so-called recipients if, at the same time, they are impoverished by falling prices for their primary commodities or if fluctuations in these prices undermine their economies? Nor is assistance of any avail to them if the marketing of these commodities is prohibited or hampered by customs duties, quotas or discriminatory practices of a similar nature. Under a plan for international co-operation, these and other practices, such as dumping and special privileges to the detriment of third parties, are inconceivable. This must be said very loudly and very clearly: if the industrialized countries genuinely wish to further the economic development of the developing countries, in the interest not only of the latter but also in their own interest, they must help to liberalize international trade and to stabilize prices generally. Otherwise, whatever may be said concerning the economic development of the poor regions of the world will be meaningless.

169. In conclusion, allow me to set aside economic questions for a moment and to refer briefly to some political and legal problems with which the United Nations is confronted. The United Nations is on the verge of achieving the universality which Is its very essence. The family of nations must be all-embracing and cannot exclude any countries other than those which do not have the moral qualities demanded by the Charter: that they be peace-loving and able and willing to carry out their international obligations.

170. There are three nations which are divided today: in Europe, there is Germany whose tremendous contribution to culture and economic development is common knowledge; in Asia, there are two countries whose culture goes back thousands of years —Korea and Viet-Nam, There is a general desire to bring about the unification of these nations; this unification can be achieved only by an honest democratic process which reflects the true feelings of their citizens. We have the moral obligation to promote the self-determination of peoples. Our organization, exercising its high authority and offering its technical services, could co-operate in the democratic processes which would lead to the unification which all proclaim they desire. Once unified, these nations would immediately be admitted to the United Nations to play their appointed role.

171. The primary objective of the United Nations, as I said at the beginning of my statement, is to maintain international peace, Peace does not consist simply in the coexistence of the various sovereign Powers and in refraining from acts or threats of violence. There is more to peace than this negative aspect. True peace demands mutual understanding and effective co-operation in the pursuit of common objectives and interests. There is also something else which is fundamental: scrupulous respect not only for the sovereignty, political independence and territorial integrity of every country, but also for its economic structure and culture. This concept of peace is of interest not only to the great Powers, which must develop their economic structures, adapt them to the needs of the times and, of their own volition, express their personalities in the family of nations, but also to the other nations of the world.

172. The United Nations Charter has considered the reduction of armaments as a means of achieving general and complete disarmament. In recent years, noteworthy debates have clearly established that disarmament cannot come about miraculously by a fiat capable of immediate execution. Disarmament entails a step-by-step process, which ensures that the necessary balance is maintained between the Powers, and the stages or steps necessitated by a form of control which involves strict inspection both of the items which are eliminated or destroyed and of those which remain for a later stage. The General Assembly, in adopting the resolution setting up the Committee on Disarmament, has laid down the principle that, in applying the step-by-step procedure, no country may gain an advantage over the others.

173. Trust is essential for disarmament, but it can only emerge from facts which create or justify it, such as the existence and effectiveness of a control body. Trust should not precede control; on the contrary, it is the guarantees of the efficacy of control which breed genuine trust.

174. An important step forward has been taken with the nuclear test ban treaty signed at Moscow, which, in addition to halting the frenzied competition which could have led to conflict, will also spare mankind from the effects of radiation which threaten the health of this and future generations.

175. It is with legitimate satisfaction that Peru recalls the position adopted by its delegation in the Disarmament Commission in 1956, when it was a member of that body by virtue of its membership in the Security Council. At that time we drew attention to the grave dangers which these tests constituted for mankind and stressed that they must be prohibited by law. Accordingly, when the tests began again, Peru reiterated its condemnation on humanitarian grounds and because of the increase in international tension. In pursuance of this policy, my country has signed the treaty, concluded in Moscow, which, it is to be hoped, will create a new international atmosphere. The procedure to be decided on for avoiding surprise attacks will also contribute to the same objective, as will any agreements which are indicative of a closer proximity of views, which will be hailed by the world at large.

176. The banning of nuclear weapons from certain areas or continents constitutes gradual progress towards an agreement for the complete elimination of nuclear weapons. A nuclear ban, laid down in a regional or continental agreement, provided that the treaties already in force are respected, demands an undertaking on the part of the nuclear Powers to respect the legitimate inviolability of the territory, territorial waters and air space of the regions concerned and of their ways of life. This reciprocity is not only logical but also strictly based on law.

177. The exploration of outer space is one of the great triumphs of modern science. Incalculable benefits may derive from the peaceful application of the discoveries which are now being made but which may also involve the danger that international competition may emerge aimed at gaining supremacy in space and using it as a base or centre for an ultimate weapon. The General Assembly, aware of this dilemma, established a committee under resolution 1472 A (XIV) to study the peaceful uses of outer space and formulate the legal principles which should govern this matter. That resolution proclaimed the principle that outer space should be used only for the benefit of mankind.

178. The delegation of Peru has explained its position in these discussions and has emphasized that, while all States should be free to explore outer space, they should all be prohibited from claiming dominion over it. Outer space, thus open to all countries for exploration, should therefore be subject to an authority which only the United Nations can exercise.

179. It has been rightly said that the present stage in the history of the United Nations is characterized by the inclusion in its membership of the young countries of Africa and Asia. The Latin American countries have hailed this event in a spirit of fraternal solidarity and filled with hope. The principle of self- determination, a doctrine which dates back to the dawn of our independence, triumphed in Latin America in the nineteenth century and in Africa and Asia in the twentieth. The delegation of Peru cordially and fraternally welcomes the new countries and looks forward with every confidence to the positive contribution which they will make to peace, co-operation and justice. It is only fair that they should find in the United Nations a forum and environment in which to express their personalities in the family of nations.

180. Peru has the classic prerequisites for economic development: natural resources consisting of a rich sub-soil, a bountiful sea, fertile land and luxuriant forests, as well as human resources, amounting to ten million human beings who want the implements with which to work and uphold the peace. But my country —proud and dignified, independent and peace- loving— also has moral resources, to which its history and international conduct bear witness. With its civilization, dating back thousands of years, and its admirable culture, it needs only capital resources and technical assistance. It confidently expects to receive them from the powerful nations which, in giving them, will be protecting themselves. With these resources, and respecting these nations but demanding the same respect and consideration in return, it will create its own greatness, as other now more fortunate and prosperous peoples have done.

181. Once the causes and effects of the evil have thus been overcome, the republican system of government and democratic principles, which we so steadfastly uphold, will cease to be threatened, as they are, by the violent and justified resentment which poverty breeds, and by the political doctrines exported from many latitudes, and we shall be able to work, as the United Nations Charter and the Bogota Charter enjoin us to do, for a fruitful peace and Christian brotherhood.


===== Session 19 - 1964 =====
122. May I be allowed to say with what pleasure and great hope I welcome, on behalf of my country and my Government, the nineteenth session of the General Assembly.
123.	Peru has reached a decisive moment in its history. While maintaining and developing its Christian and Western heritage, it is reviving the values which are its proud legacy from the empire of the Incas: political unity accompanied by respect for the inherent differences between the various regions, the resolve to bring civilization to other lands, and ardent concern for the welfare of the community,
124.	The Government of Peru has devoted its efforts to increasing the amount of arable land, to extending, through difficult terrain, the road network which is to link the principal cities with the outlying provinces and to provide highways through the jungles of the Amazon, filled with mystery and promise, subsequently linking the terminals of those highways to a forest perimeter road, thus making Humboldt’s concept of Amazonia as a geographical unit a reality and forging closer links between the neighbouring countries.
125.	As a result of our Government's efforts to implement United Nations recommendations on community services, many schools have been built, bridges constructed and new roads opened and more housing has been built in a single year than in the previous ten years. Industrialization has made great advances in recent years towards the goal of achieving economic independence; the stability of our currency has improved, as has our balance-of-payments position. I can state from this rostrum, without boasting and with complete objectivity, that all this has been done without prejudice to our constitutional structure, by seeking, despite all obstacles, the co-operation of all the public authorities and the essential political co-ordination, by meeting the just claims of labour, and with complete freedom of expression.
126.	This is only a beginning and an indication of the immense task which still lies before Peru, the heir to Inca tradition: that of creating new employment opportunities, developing neglected or latent natural resources in order to cope with the population explosion, arresting the tragic exodus from the highlands, the cradle of our culture, by modem agricultural methods such as the use of fertilizers and the efficient organization of co-operatives, and overcoming the handicap of the low prices obtained for our raw materials, which contrast so unfairly with disproportionately high prices of the manufactures we have to import.
127.	Since this subject has been dealt with by previous speakers, I need only say that the convening of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development was a most valuable step and that the Final Act of that Conference is a document which deserves the closest study; I trust that the countries which enjoy a favourable geographical position, a great cultural heritage, expanding capital resources and a recognized national personality have been convinced that that personality will find its highest and most just expression in whole-hearted co-operation in order to close that gap, and prevent it from widening into an abyss which might threaten human culture.
128.	I should be guilty of insincerity if I failed to mention, or mentioned only in passing, the deep concern felt by Members and friends of the United Nations about the crisis we are facing. A possible solution has been suggested by our Secretary-General, who with his scrupulous impartiality, his universal understanding and his warm humanity embodies the finest ideals of the United Nations. I trust he will accept these words, which I am sure you all endorse, as an egression of our regard for him and of our wishes for his complete and speedy recovery,
129.	The remarkable history of the United Nations over the last twenty years encourages us in our confidence that the present difficulties will be overcome. I have been fortunate enough to witness this history in the making. At San Francisco our hopes were based on two fundamental assumptions: firstly, perpetual harmony between the great Powers; secondly, the immediate fulfilment of Article 43 of the Charter on the conclusion by the Security Council of special agreements with all Members of the United Nations and their effective co-operation in cases of threats to the peace, breaches of the peace or acts of aggression. When these assumptions were invalidated by events which we all remember and regret, our Organization seem destined to become the scene of irreconcilable conflicts and fruitless discussions. In life there are, however, inexhaustible resources; there are mysterious forces and the Intangible influence of spiritual values, which one political realist has called the "imponderables", the most Important of which is the calm and heroic determination of a people, a head of State or an organization to carry out its duty resolutely in the face of all dangers.
130.	At a time of bitter disillusion and impending crisis, the General Assembly solemnly proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, an affirmation of faith, a call to duty and hope, which had the effect of imbuing the new generations, which yearned for justice and peace, with many ideals.
131.	In the course of these hazardous twenty years, often on the edge of abysses which appeared impassable, the United Nations survived the Korean crisis and gave its attention to economic co-operation; technical assistance was developed within the limits of our resources and the specialized agencies carried on their work for children, for the support and defence of labour, for agricultural development and for the expansion of educational opportunities. Regional pacts affirming adherence to the Charter were concluded and even the Suez crisis provided an opportunity for establishing an emergency force — the forces which should have been established under Article 43 not having come into existence — which tinder the banner and insignia of the United Nations, has served the cause of peace.
132.	It was pointed out at the time that the responsibility for maintaining international peace and order lay with the Organization as a whole and not with the Security Council alone, although the Council had primary responsibility.
133.	There is no need for me to revive the debates at San Francisco and the arguments that were put forward at the 1950 session of the General Assembly. Thanks largely to the determination of the majority of its Members, and with the growing approval of public opinion, the United Nations has fulfilled the purpose for which it was founded by interpreting the Charter in its true spirit, by reference to precedents and in the light of one decisive factor: requirements of a changing world.
134.	It can be claimed without exaggeration that the United Nations owes its survival during these twenty years to the evolutionary interpretation of the Charter, which makes it possible for us to apply immutable principles to the change and progress of the modem world. I use the word "evolutionary" deliberately, because it implies that we must constantly review the application of immutable principles to changing objects.
135.	May I, as a former professor, quote the famous authors, of Parliamentary Logic: "Identical principles do not necessarily produce the same effect; they do so only when applied to identical objects". If the principles of the Charter are to be applied to different situations, we, like the Roman praetor whose decisions were made on the basis of a just interpretation of the development of law, must examine every circumstance and every case in order to apply the unvarying principle in the fairest possible manner,
136.	Although the present dispute and the crisis it has brought about may be due fundamentally to conflicting interpretations of the Charter and perhaps to differing legal concepts, it is clear that, apart from these latent difficulties, there are other practical difficulties of a financial and economic nature in connexion with peace-keeping operations, whether for the halting of aggression, for prevention or for Co-ordination.
137.	At the same time I feel it my duty to state, with the same sincerity with which I have set forth the inviolable principles of the Charter, that in considering the nature •1 the different financial operations, we must use common sense together with technical knowledge and differentiate between the ordinary proceedings of the Organization and its extraordinary operations. The latter, although performed in compliance with a duty unquestionably incumbent on all Members, may involve some differentiation based on the fundamental responsibility which the Charter conferred on the great Powers, namely, direct responsibility in the events that have occurred — a historical fact that can be proved — and immediate interest determined by geographical position or regional solidarity.
138.	The advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice, which legitimately declared the principle of universality and of the obligation of all Members of the United Nations, preserved the criterion that specific definition of the obligation should depend on the various conditions imposed by circumstances. The previous decisions of the General Assembly favour this criterion of relativity and flexibility, which in no way affects the immutability of the principles of the Charter.
139.	At this time, the representative of a small Power should really do no more than express his sincerest hopes that, in the spirit of San Francisco, which requires all organs of our institution to work in harmony, a way will be found of restoring to the United Nations its full range of activities.
140.	It would be wrong to overlook the fact that recently there have been important changes in the international environment. A current of opinion, rising above ideological and political frontiers, is supporting the efforts being made to consolidate peace. It may be said that today all spiritual forces are being mobilized in favour of an international order based, not on the mere balance of power, always uncertain and unreliable, in the nuclear age, but on an acute vision of the essential harmony of human interests, and in favour of promoting the improvement of the standard of living of the masses, restoring to science its specific mission of furthering life and progress rather than destruction and death.
141.	We today are witnesses of this extraordinary mobilization, which has culminated in the journey of His Holiness Paul VI to India, a magnificent pilgrimage in which the voices of the representatives of the greatest religions of the world have joined in a message of peace and of mankind's desire that armaments should be reduced and that all resources should be applied to relieving the dereliction, hunger and disease suffered by two thirds of the human race.
142.	The resumption of the General Assembly opens up an immense field of action. There are many encouraging symptoms, including the ratification by more than a hundred countries of the Treaty banning nuclear tests — although, unfortunately, not underground tests — and the pronouncement of so many institutions in favour of a policy of co-operation and intelligence. The debates on disarmament are showing more and more clearly the undeniable truth of these principles to which I should like to draw the Assembly's attention: firstly, control applied equally to the Powers concerned is contrary neither to their sovereignty nor to their dignity; secondly, control, which is a means of application in every multilateral treaty, is in the case of disarmament, an essential element of the treaty itself; and, thirdly, maximum nuclear power with maximum deterrent force is merely an illusion and a deception because there will always be the possibility of a miscalculation, of an unfounded hope or of a suicidal urge which, like an imminent sanction, accompanies the hallucination of hegemony.
143.	The conquest of outer space seems certain and one advantage is that there is relative agreement between the Powers on the necessity of keeping it free from claims to sovereignty and the use of nuclear arms. The road is open to a more solid position affirming the jurisdiction of the United Nations under the auspices of a multilateral agreement on the peaceful uses of outer space and the scientific results of its explorations.
144.	International harmony presupposes not only means of common accord but psychological readiness for peace through the sincere and final refusal to profit from any circumstance which might harm the prestige or position of another nation which, because it is a Member of the United Nations, is a sister nation. Today the danger to peace lies not in open threats, in violent rupture or in flagrant aggression; it lies in indirect means, in the encouragement of political anarchy and in the support of subversive movements as part of the illusion of spheres of influence, of. those spheres of influence which led to the rivalry of the great Powers throughout the nineteenth century and the present twentieth century. It is therefore most desirable that the principles of economic and cultural co-operation proclaimed in our Charter should be put into practice. There is room within this co-operation for peaceful competition, a sort of creative rivalry which would in itself bring the recompense of great prestige and recognition of the highest services in the cause of humanity.
145.	Our brothers from Africa and Asia have proclaimed a policy of non-alignment, that is to say of considering themselves isolated from the former tendencies to political, economic or cultural hegemony. We interpret this declaration as an intention to give effective application to the principle of self-determination. The validity and acceptance of that principle will guarantee not only political independence but also, logically, universal peace. This just desire calls for a suitable response from the Great Powers, namely, the renunciation of all unilateral or selfish influence and the decision to co-operate for the good of the developing Powers, through parallel actions of multilateral agreements, or through regional agreements or arrangements or by generously developing even further the specialized organs of the United Nations.
146.	A few moments ago I said that universality was a prerequisite not only of justice but of peace. Peace is indivisible because it is universal in the noblest sense of the word. Peace, like spiritual values, calls for tribute from the great and contributions from the small. By drawing closer to universality, therefore, the United Nations has given its objective of peace a sure and strong basis. That desire for peace which has its place in the hearts of all young nations, and which this body has started — and will certainly continue — to recognize at this session, must be considered one of the imponderable factors of spiritual value which animate this institution.
147.	I shall conclude by merely recalling the lesson of long experience: the alternative, facing the world is clear. It is not the hegemony of a group of Powers over other Powers. No, that was the alternative of the past; today it is either complete legal and moral order or universal destruction by the atom bomb.


===== Session 20 - 1965 =====
114. As I gaze from this rostrum on the panorama of the Assembly, a long-familiar feeling of admiration and an awareness of shared ideals and principles call to my mind that great figure Adlai Stevenson, one of the most distinguished leaders that the United Nations has known. While the memory of the illustrious dead is a sorrow, it is even more a consolation and an inspiration for those of us who carry on the fight they fought so brilliantly.
 
115. Adlai Stevenson’s political and social philosophy, conforming as it did to the conception of the United Nations, was formed in San Francisco in 1945 and at the Assembly held in London in 1946. In his political campaigns, he emphasized his determined support for our Organization. Destiny willed that in. his last years we were able to count on his talents and on his words in debates and in the solution of difficult problems. His eloquence was the product of clarity of thought, depth of feeling and felicity of expression. I am sure these words of mine reflect the feeling of the Assembly and there is nothing more just than to pay homage to a representative who was the embodiment of the virtue that we most need today: faith in the United Nations.
116. The twentieth session of the United Nations General Assembly is beginning under a sign of hope. In the most trying moments of the crisis, our faith in the providential destiny of the United Nations did not falter, certain as we were that all the difficulties would be overcome. It is both just and fitting to acknowledge the patience, skill and wisdom displayed by Mr. Quaison-Sackey, President of the General Assembly at the nineteenth session, and U Thant, our Secretary-General. At the meetings held under the no-voting procedure no serious problems were discussed,, but those meetings demonstrated at a crucial moment the will and determination of the Assembly to survive in order to fulfil the noble purposes of the Charter. With admirable instinct it achieved unanimity in its various Councils and organs, which have been functioning normally. It is as if the crisis has served to emphasize all the more clearly the importance of the work of the United Nations.
117. We must also congratulate the Special Committee on Peace-keeping Operations. It has followed the only possible road, respecting what might be called effective rights and leaving for future discussion the question of the most equitable and appropriate apportionment of peace-keeping expenses.
118. The Assembly is now able to resume the normal course of its fruitful work and the opening of the present session coincides with the success achieved by the Security Council in obtaining from India and Pakistan, two great Powers that arouse sympathy and admiration in all, a cease-fire in observance of Article 40 of the Charter.
119. The unanimity of the Council throughout the various stages of this problem is of far-reaching significance. A new strength and a new state of mind have replaced the bitter differences that had led to the paralysis of the Council or to emergency sessions of the Assembly, accompanied by announcements of rebellion and dissatisfaction.
120. New factors have arisen in the life of the United Nations and in the world atmosphere as a whole, factors that we should do well to ponder. We must, of course, view the universality that is being attained by the United Nations as a most propitious basis for the future. The Peruvian delegation takes this opportunity of extending a most cordial welcome to the new nations admitted as Members — the Gambia, the Maldive Islands and Singapore — and of expressing its sincere wishes for the success of their participation in the United Nations. Universality makes it possible for our debates and resolutions to reach a wider audience and encourages a more scrupulous examination of our responsibilities. All peoples can make their voices heard in this world forum.
121. It is axiomatic that the small Powers, despite understandable influences and commitments, gravitate towards peace; for it is not war alone, but also mere international tension, that blocks every load to the progress to which they are entitled.
122. The dramatic incidents of nuclear competition have in themselves brought about the profound conviction that war cannot lead to the triumph of one country or of one ideology but will inevitably lead to mutual destruction and even to the very extinction of life on the planet. It may be that a certain sector still adheres to the revolutionary myth, which is similar to and coincident with the racial myth, and still clings to the illusion of a precarious survival in the wake of the universal catastrophe; but a true realization of the tragedy that is threatening us is shared by all the other peoples of the world.
123. Wars have occurred whenever minorities, drunk with the desire for power, have succeeded in spreading the fever of the myth of racial, ideological or political hegemony to the masses, who were victims first of deception and then of the holocaust. Neither the morality of religion nor the lessons of history proved a bar to these fatal tendencies, for a number of wars were successful, in achieving temporary advantages. Today, things have changed radically; the harsh lessons of recent conflicts and the new discoveries made under the stimulus of war itself, which threaten mankind with an all-pervading and Dantesque punishment for this deviation from humanity, have been a vital and terrible experience for us all. We are now, thanks to free discussion and the information media, approaching a new stage of collective conscience. Confidence in the settlement of problems by technical compromises is replacing the call of the myth and the ill-fated promptings of man's primitive belligerence. The peoples of the world wish to work in peace towards a better life and, through it, to fulfil their destinies. However cut off from the world the minorities ruling certain régimes may be, they cannot be impervious to this mysterious awakening of the human spirit. The United Nations, by its world-wide representation, has strengthened this new universal conscience and is carrying forward its task by reaffirming the principles of coexistence and deep-rooted human solidarity.
124. There is another factor of decisive importance: the extraordinary mobilization that we are witnessing of all the spiritual energies of the world, in both the religious and cultural spheres, in favour of peace. This sense of salvation has found its greatest spokesman in the Catholic Church, in keeping with its rich and age-old history. Its theologians of Hispanic nationality had already created international law. A Pontiff who was a son of the people, with the sublime simplicity of his soul which was rooted in the soil but illuminated by the highest spiritual inspiration, appealed to the world for peace in his encyclical Pacem in Terris, addressed not only to believers but to all men of goodwill, without distinction of race, nationality or religion. His Holiness Pope Paul VI, heir and successor to His Holiness Pope John XXIII, has crossed continents and seas with this humanitarian appeal. Paying a significant tribute of trust in the mission of the United Nations, he is preparing to visit us, bringing us his words of faith and love that will be received with deep emotion by the whole of mankind. His message will be heard not only by States but by all peoples. Pope Paul VI knows foil well that, in accordance with the magnificent Preamble to our Charter, at decisive moments it is fitting to speak of the peoples of the United Nations. It is they who work, suffer and are ready to die for just causes. The fatherly exhortations of the representative of the Prince of Peace will certainly find an echo in their good and simple hearts.
125. There is no need for Peru to state once again its unchanging position on the constitutional question underlying the crisis which has fortunately been overcome. Ever since San Francisco, Peru has maintained that peace is not the exclusive responsibility of the Security Council, even though it may be its primary responsibility, but is the concern of the entire Organization and that, in accordance with an amendment unanimously adopted, when the Council is unable to act, the General Assembly, merely upon notification by the Secretary-General, is empowered to do so. In our opinion, the Assembly has not only the right but the obligation to act, for the maintenance of peace is the supreme duty of the United Nations.
126. This, however, does not relieve us of the need to do everything possible to preserve the harmony between the Security Council and the General Assembly and to exhaust every means of achieving co-operation between them. The unanimity rule is not solely the law of the veto; it imposes an obligation to seek unanimity in good faith, recording disagreement only if it was not possible to achieve unanimity. We do not think that it is contrary to the Charter — indeed, it is in the spirit of the Charter — to permit soundings and efforts to bring opposing parties closer to each other. Without prejudice to the so-called residual right of the Assembly, would it not be advisable in moments of crisis for the Secretary-General, with the advice or co-operation of a standing committee of good offices composed of one representative of each region or regional system, to try to reconcile the different points of view on a serious problem? Without altering resolution 377 (V), entitled "Uniting for peace", it would suffice to add to the bodies envisaged therein a new' committee of good offices representing all the regional systems. Under this arrangement, the Security Council would have some idea of the possible attitude of an emergency General Assembly and would weigh the disadvantages of ignoring an appeal for further consideration of the problem.
127. It should be recalled here that, in the conflict which arose between the General Assembly and the Security Council over the admission of new Members, the Assembly requested a Committee composed of one representative from Europe, one from the Afro-Asian group and one from the Latin American group, over which I had the honour to preside, to exercise its good offices. This Committee started its proceedings at San Francisco in 1955; some months later, in New York, with the support of Canada and the Nordic countries, it reached the agreement which broke the deadlock and set us on the road to universality. At that time nobody considered that this arrangement was contrary to the Charter. It sets an auspicious precedent for the committee we are proposing. The members of the Security Council cannot be denied the right to have an opportunity to modify their opinions in the light of the considerations presented by a committee backed by the authority of the entire Assembly.
128. Our main concern is to avoid anything which, at this time of hope, may cause a disturbance of the peace. International tension by its very nature entails tragic consequences, in addition to the danger or threat of actual war. This tension arises through local wars sparked by external causes which have resulted or may result in redeeming and effective action by the Security Council. The most dangerous form of tension, however, is that derived from the direct or indirect intervention of some great Power to overthrow régimes in other countries which it considers to be unfriendly and to have them replaced by régimes which are not only friendly but which fellow its political system. In other words, the danger today — as at other times — lies in the struggle for spheres of influence, with violation of respect for sovereignty and the overt or covert exercise of intervention.
129. The phenomenon has political aspects and new characteristics and must be carefully placed in its legal context. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of Argentina has drawn the attention of the Assembly to this in a masterly manner [1337th meeting] and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Chile has done so in the same fashion [1338th meeting]. Obviously, the regional or the universal jurisdiction must be put in motion with full effectiveness in each case. We would only venture to add, in cases where this jurisdiction cannot be established, the obligation of the Power concerned to hold a conference immediately, initiating negotiation without prior conditions, which are a remnant of imperialist tendencies and contrary to the spirit of international law and which today constitute a way of avoiding negotiation or ensuring its failure.
130. The delegation of Peru will study with due care the proposals submitted on this subject. There can be no more appropriate subject for the application of the juridical principles of the Charter, which are the most noteworthy contribution of the Americas to international law.
131. An item which stands out particularly in the heavy agenda we have this year is the problem of disarmament. Without disarmament, although there is a feeling in favour of peace among all peoples, war may break out through accident, error, miscalculation or delusion. It is a sad stage that mankind has reached. Today its fate does not depend on what is in the hearts of men. Technology has made it dependent upon the mechanical interplay of purely material factors. It is not enough to have propaganda in favour of peace or to create an emotional state in which dangerous errors and unavowable intentions can be concealed. Disarmament is above all a technical problem in the twofold sense of the word: technical because of the scientific methods made necessary by unavowable aims, and technical because of the immutable nature of the institution and of the juridical principles which must necessarily govern it.
132. Bearing this in mind, the delegation of Peru will turn its attention to the interesting report of the Disarmament Commission, to the timely proposals made by the non-aligned countries and to those just made from this rostrum by the delegations of the United States and the Soviet Union.
133. We are naturally favourably disposed towards the idea of a disarmament conference but we hope it would not be limited to asking for an unconditional ban on the atomic bomb, which would be naive or too mischievous unless there were guarantees of real and fully effective control. In all the debates we have emphasized that, in the disarmament agreement in the nuclear age, inspection to supervise the elements to be destroyed and the process of their destruction is not only a way of fulfilling the contract but an element or actual condition of the obligation. Full inspection is therefore in the nature and essence of the agreement. To oppose it or to limit it by political suspicion or by an absolute concept of sovereignty — a concept, moreover, which is today incompatible with the existence of the international community — would indeed be an indefensible attitude and contrary to the purposes of the Charter. A defective agreement involving disarmament without guarantees, designed to produce a false feeling of confidence, would be more dangerous than the existing situation, because, once the balance is upset in the process of disarmament, the illusion of a lightning war and an easy victory — man's old and lamentable weakness — would emerge.
134. We have approved by a vast majority the proposals submitted by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ireland on the proliferation of nuclear weapons and we shall naturally give sympathetic and calm consideration to any new proposals submitted for the realization of the ideal already approved. We should, however, be failing in a duty of sincerity if we did not state that, within a strict hierarchy of values, we should give the achievement of immediate measures of disarmament priority over any other proposal or project that would barely alleviate the evil from which we suffer.
135. We listened with great interest to the statement made by the representative of Italy [1338th meeting] on this important matter and on the principles underlying the draft which establishes a link — essential, in my view — between disarmament and measures to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
136. With regard to outer space, we must applaud the rapprochement of the views of the great Powers and the announcement by the United States of its willingness to sign a bilateral treaty on co-operation in this matter. At the same time, we must emphatically state that we maintain our opinion on the need to proclaim the jurisdiction of the United Nations in any problems and questions which may arise in connexion with outer spaced. Outer space is of interest not only to the great Powers but, above all, to mankind. The difficult points in this beautiful adventure cannot be left to mere agreements between the great Powers or to chance, without there being a pre-established authority to settle any disagreements or conflicts which may arise. This function, which may entail not only declarations but also co-operation, can be fulfilled only by human authority — in other words, by the organ of the international community, namely, the United Nations.
137. We have said that disarmament has a bearing on peace for two reasons: because it eliminates the occasions of war and because, once it has been achieved, the great Powers will be able to turn their attention to economic assistance. Let us not forget that in the Charter to which we subscribed twenty years ago, the maintenance of peace is linked to collective well-being; for our part, we could undoubtedly reverse the terms and say that this collective well-being is today one of the foundations of peace.
138. What would the great Powers gain by carrying out their vast programme of development, which we all view with approbation, sympathy and lively interest, if at the same time war preparations are sapping their resources and deflecting them from their mission of saving the under-developed countries from hunger, anguish and despair? It is infinitely sad to see in those countries a kind of retrogression which is making their living conditions worse and retarding their culture and which may lead from anguish to despair and to blind outbursts of force culminating in the establishment of dictatorships or totalitarian régimes which will not cure either hunger or illiteracy but which will establish forced labour and bring back infamous slavery. I do not mince my words in the face of the heat-rending examples of today. Economic aid is not only a most lofty mission which fate has unavoidably entrusted to the great Powers but also a positive advantage for their own self-preservation.
139. Political and economic isolation is inconceivable in a world in which large regions are afflicted by hunger and may fall a prey to anarchy. The Economic and Social Council and the economic commissions will in their wisdom, we are sure, promote the most conducive methods to make the aid provided through the specialized agencies timely, effective, proportionate and generous and the General Assembly must endorse and give life to the most interesting resolutions adopted by the Conference on Trade and Development held at Geneva in 1964.
140. We do not consider that external aid is the panacea for the situation in the developing countries. This aid must be accompanied — this must be sincerely proclaimed and I am sure my words will find an echo in the developing nations — by a commensurate effort to promote self-help, to master the environment and to establish a working discipline which, indeed, is the basis of liberty. It has never been synonymous with debility or laziness but with a vision of purposes and valiant determination to, attain them. In this sense, the labours of the United Nations may provide an example of effective and timely assistance as well as an incentive.
141. Allow me, with great patriotic pleasure, to draw the attention of the Assembly to the work being done at this moment by the Government of Peru under its programme to stimulate national energies and make the maximum use of our country's human and material resources. Representatives are well aware that, owing to the' varied climate and geographic obstacles, there are few environments more difficult to conquer than the territory of Peru. The response of man has had to be equal to the challenge of nature, in which desert sands alternate with snowy summits and impenetrable forests.
142. In his last message, the President of Peru stated that the existing highways are being improved and that the provincial and even the district capitals are today linked by highways, in may cases constructed by communal action acclaimed and recommended by the United Nations. A total of 750 million soles has been invested in highways and roads.
143. The current irrigation plan will increase the land of Peru by over a million hectares. Of these, 250,000 hectares will be in the coastal region, 220,000 in the sierra and 600,000 in the forest region. As a result of the agrarian reform undertaken by the Peruvian Government, over 100,000 holdings have been given to new landowners this year.
144. The literacy campaign has been waged enthusiastically and is now the largest item in the national budget. There have been 16,980 classes in operation with 1.7 million pupils.

145. The housing plan carried out by the State, by privately organized mutual societies and by communal action has been executed, transforming and beautifying our cities. In this branch alone there has been an investment of 550 million soles.
146. The Andean countries of South America were not fortunate enough to have what Professor Turner would call the "dynamic frontier" — land near to population centres which is suitable for agriculture and livestock and is easy to farm, has access to markets and offers a haven for new immigrants.
147. Mountains, rivers and jungles have obstructed the progress of our own conquest. In the so-called "plands", however, owing to the favourable climate there is land suitable for high-quality crops and for livestock. The President of Peru is endeavouring to penetrate these territories with highways joined in a system to be called the "forest border highway", which would benefit not only Peru but other American countries such as Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador and Bolivia and would also be the basis for a larger continental network. The relevant agreement has already been signed and studies for this tremendous project are now in progress.
148. This huge task is able to move forward thanks to monetary stability, the establishment of new industries and a favourable balance of payments, all
of which are being achieved with the strictest respect for democratic institutions.
149. Allow me to state with justifiable satisfaction that, during these years of trial and struggle and — why not say it? — of victory for the United Nations, Peru has demonstrated its devotion and complete loyalty to the principles of the United. Nations Charter and to the fulfilment of the lofty functions bestowed upon it by the Assembly. Our policy in the United Nations, as in the American continent, has followed the clear path of our life as a democratic country.
150. Heir to a twofold cultural and humanitarian tradition through the Incas and the Viceroys, Peru established itself as an independent nation, proclaiming and practising the principle of self-determination, establishing its sovereignty in the territories liberated by its armies and by the armies of brother countries. Their peoples proclaimed the independence of Peru and recognized its first constitution and they have always been represented in the Peruvian Congress.
151. There is not one inch of Peruvian territory which was not included in the structure of its original constitution. Any questions which arose in our independent life were settled by arbitration or supplementary arrangements which we faithfully respected. When through no fault of ours arbitration failed, we sought, with the assistance and guarantee of the great countries of America, an equitable settlement which consecrated and respected the intangible personality and untouchable corporeity of Peru at the time of its independence.
152. We endorsed the ideal of fraternity of the 1826 Congress of Panama. The congresses of Lima of 1847 and 1864 reiterated the basic solidarity and. the principle of non-intervention. Whenever the independence or sovereignty of any American country was in danger, Peru immediately adopted a fine attitude of full solidarity.
153. It is in this spirit that we have been working at the Pan-American conferences which today constitute the oldest regional system in the world and whose Charter has proclaimed that international order consists of respect for the personality and territorial integrity of States and the faithful fulfilment of obligations derived from treaties and other sources of international law. It is in this spirit that we Latin American countries are working in the United Nations. By our culture we belong to the Western Christian world but we are united by distant historical ties, by elements in our own population, and above all by the adventure of independence and freedom, with the young countries of Africa and Asia. We thus belong to the old world with its millennial culture and to the so-called third world, with its anguished yearning for development and progress and its longing for brotherhood and justice.
154. Our role has been clear in the United Nations. Zealous champions of the Charter, of the powers of the Councils and of the functions of the Assembly, it has been our destiny to prepare the United Nations for universality, which facilitates contact between the great Powers and all the peoples of the earth in this forum and promotes the awakening of a universal conscience. We serve as a bridge or tie with the Atlantic world and with the countries which are heirs to the oldest human civilizations but which today are anxious, without losing their personality, to join in the better aspects of contemporary civilization.
155. We think that for these countries of the third world there is no higher loyalty, after allegiance to their own country and, I would say, side by side with it, than allegiance to the United Nations. Other ties casual and temporal in character; only the tie with the United Nations has a universal, sacred and permanent character.
156. It is today our profound conviction that a necessary and unavoidable prerequisite for social and scientific progress is the reign of juridical order, which can be achieved only through the family of nations.
157. It has fallen to us to live in an age when we have proof, based on experience, that the culture and well-being of man depend not, as was thought in the nineteenth century, on the greatest desire for power, but on the desire to love and to serve. I sincerely believe that it is this desire which has enabled the United Nations to survive in the crises of the past. I do not wish to mention them nor refer to them, for I do not want to revive unpleasant memories for any one, but I must say that, from these crises in which it seemed to flounder, our institution has emerged stronger and better prepared to overcome the obstacles of the next crisis. Thus we have succeeded, thanks to providence and to the will of all of you, in celebrating our twentieth anniversary with a feeling of triumph and a vision of shining tasks to be accomplished in the future.


===== Session 21 - 1966 =====
15.     Mr. President, in the tense international situation of today, your unanimous election as President of the General Assembly is a cause for great satisfaction and for hope. Your judicious and distinguished work in the United Nations has been characterized by a high sense of responsibility, impartiality, dedication to peace and to harmony among nations, a profound knowledge of the Charter and the rules of procedure and a rare gift for finding ways of promoting understanding and reconciliation in moments of stress. These qualities are a guarantee of the success of this session as we confront the grave problems which you so aptly and frankly described in your opening words. It falls to you to continue the outstanding work performed by your predecessor, who conducted our proceedings with deep wisdom and exquisite courtesy during a crisis which appeared insurmountable, thus remaining time to the fine traditions of his great country,

16.    I should like to take advantage of this opportunity to pay a tribute to our Secretary-General. For five years It has fallen to him to represent in his person the spirit and the alms of this Organization, and only my respect for his personal reasons prevents me from appealing to him to continue his work at this crucial time in the history of mankind: however, I am confident that his example and counsel will help the United Nations in meeting the immense responsibilities fate has laid upon it,

17.    On behalf of the Government of Peru, I should like to welcome Guyana, and I trust that It will always actively co-operate in the defence of peace and international order.

18.    Distinguished speakers before me have already commented on the great world issues, and I therefore feel that, speaking for the Government of Peru, I should devote this statement to, and place special emphasis on, one particular subject—namely, the review being made at the international level of the problem of under-development, This problem is one of major interest to the Government of Peru.

19.    In 1964, one year after the beginning of President Fernando Belaunde Terry's administration, we gave expression to the desire of the Peruvian people to combat, by legal and democratic means, the great and growing inequality which existed and still exists in my country between the haves and the have-nots. It was the vigorous and legitimate message of a people wishing to see democracy prevail in the economic sphere. We said then and we repeat today that there has to be a strict correspondence between legal equality and economic equality, and between needs and the satisfaction of needs. These are the objectives towards which the efforts of my Government have been directed in recent years; we have been endeavouring to ensure that the legal order in force reflects with absolute accuracy the common interests of the majority, and the steps we have taken to this end are beginning to make themselves felt. There are various ways of changing social and economic structures, and Peru has its own ancient method, borrowed from the Incas, through which we are trying to set our whole economy in motion. This powerful instrument is the general, spontaneous mobilization of the people's energies, which we can now combine with the resources mobilized by State capital within a free enterprise system.

20.    It was popular co-operation that made the Empire of the Incas great, and we are drawing on it today in organizing central depots of machinery, equipment and tools which are placed in the hands of people eager for work. Both in the past and now, it is thanks to a splended collective effort that we have been able to construct local roads, aqueducts and school buildings, and to undertake many other public works. In these projects, the State provides only technical advice and materials. It would not have been possible to give so much to the community in such a short time. The record of achievements speaks for itself: of 7,000 projects begun under the programme of Popular Co-operation since 1963, more than 2,800 have been completed. The effects of the modest amounts of public funds invested in these projects have been multiplied three times and more, thanks to the voluntary efforts of the people. That is to say, an investment of only 165 million soles has made possible the completion of projects worth 500 million soles.

21.    Popular co-operation still represents only a beginning in the creation of the vast machinery Peru needs for its development, but we are sure that it will gain momentum as the State gradually acquires more resources to speed the work.

22.    The r-ew roads represent the first step towards bringing about the physical integration of Peru. For a long time we Peruvians were, in a sense, a people with a Mediterranean mentality. Our principal cities were established," following the Spanish conquest, in the narrow, fertile valleys lying along a desert coast. It was a peripheral country, whose people had forgotten that across the sea from its arid coast there were other peoples and continents and that behind them on the far side of the majestic range of the Andes, itself a treasury of minerals of all kinds, lay the real storehouse with which nature had so generously endowed us. Communications were needed and are still needed to give access to this area, and the Government of my country, bearing in mind the needs of the present and of the immediate future, and preparing us for the irreversible and inevitable process of Latin American integration, is giving priority attention to that matter. In the Peruvian forest region there are other, natural means of communication — the rivers of the Amazon basin — which will have to play a major part in bringing about Latin American integration.

23.    Another aspect of our economic and social development to which particular importance is attached by the Government is the strengthening of the agricultural sector. Fifty-one per cent of the population of Peru is engaged in agriculture; it is a high percentage, but it contributes only 17.4 per cent to the national economy. The pressure of population growth, proceeding at an annual rate of 3.02 per cent, exceeds the 2.8 per cent increase in agricultural production. The low man-land ratio in a country with more than 12 million inhabitants and only 2,180,000 hectares of cultivated land is one of the most acute and pressing problems before us. With a view to attacking this problem at its very root and in its many facets, particularly through increasing productivity in the cultivated areas and bringing new land under cultivation, the democratic process of countrywide land reform was begun three years ago. We believe in the efficacy of the means and methods used, for they reflect a new spirit and rely on three factors; a realistic programme, the co-operation of the top strata of society, and the determination of the Peruvian people to carry out this reform. In speaking of the cooperation of the top strata of society, I would point out that the legislation in force in my country provides full guarantees for Peruvian and foreign investors. This principle is upheld today more than ever. Nevertheless, we consider that it is necessary and urgent to introduce reforms in the fields of commercial enterprise and taxation; we have begun to carry out such reforms, without any encroachment on rights or violation of principles, and the results have definitely been positive.

24.    In view of the desirability and feasibility of multilateral co-operation to promote a fairer land tenure system in Latin America, the Peruvian Government has, at a number of international gatherings, supported the proposal for international underwriting of bonds issued by States as part of national land reform campaigns. We are counting on the support of other countries and trust that the international financial institutions will continue to devote attention to this proposal.

25.    The policies of the Government which I represent in this world body, in promoting economic and social progress, can thus be considered satisfactory. The increase in the national income in 1965 was 8.5 per cent, placing Peru at the head of the Latin American countries. In the domestic sphere, the real gross national product increased by 4.3 per cent, and in the external sphere the foreign currency reserves rose appreciably. The increase in both public and private investment exceeded the previous year's level by 30 per cent, rising to 25 per cent of the gross national product, and the financial policy of my country achieved the objectives of maintaining and protecting the stability of the currency, creating full employment and increasing the sources of production. In spite of all this, however, where international trade is concerned we are not yet satisfied. We continue to battle against under-development, and it is clear that the functioning of our economic structure in the fields of production, exports and trade still retains the basic features of instability and dependence common to the under-developed countries of the world. In 1965, for example, the value of our exports showed an increase of only 1 per cent, less than the average rate for the period 1960-1964, mainly owing to the fall in the international prices of some of our principal export products. This is the tragedy of a mineral-producing country whose primary product economy is subject to the fluctuations of foreign prices and markets and the recurrent deterioration in the terms of trade.

26.    In order to avoid such dislocations, Peru has embarked on the process of industrialization. In a free enterprise system, this process takes time, because it is conditional on the requirements and the planning of private enterprise, but in the long run it brings unquestionable rewards. Peru's industrial growth rate in 1965 was 7 per cent, or almost the same as in the two preceding years.

27.    We are becoming increasingly convinced, however, that international trade will have to play a preponderant role, particularly if it is aimed at achieving an equitable distribution of the wealth created at the international level. Hence the importance of the efforts of regional organizations and, above all, of the United Nations, and of their declarations, enunciations of principles and programmes of economic, scientific and technical assistance. If, in the past, international trade brought no benefits to most of the developing countries of Latin America, Africa and Asia, it was because the highly industrialized countries converted them into mere supplies of industrial raw materials. A dispassionate analysis of the achievements during that portion of the United Nations Development Decade which has already gone by reveals very modest progress. The gap between industrialized and developing countries, or between rich and poor, continues to widen because of the delay in making trade an instrument for development, a goal proclaimed at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development held at Geneva in 1964. Under-development is still winning the battle, and the great Powers are maintaining the rate of militarization of their economies and diverting to that purpose vast resources which could be devoted to the rapid and systematic development of depressed areas. My Government believes that the World Conference to which I have just referred, besides providing the occasion for a statement of will which is reflected in the principles, declarations and resolutions adopted, was the most important event of this decade, along with the establishment of the United Nations International Development Organization. We trust that the Trade and Development Board, to which we will give our warm support, will begin its work by finding rational formulas which will help us to avoid a confrontation between want and abundance and facilitate the achievement of the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter.

28.    Peru's position as regards the reorganization of world trade in the interests of development is and has always been clear. It shares the aspirations of the bloc of under-developed countries of Asia and Africa, and, as to methods, it is in agreement with the other Latin American countries. The BogotSL Act, the Punta del Este Charter, the Alta Gracia Charter and the conclusions of the Ad Hoc Committee on Latin American Co-ordination, all documents in whose formulation Peru co-operated actively, reflect the goals of our endeavours at the international level in the fields of international trade and economic integration, and that is why we stress and will continue to stress the urgent need to harmonize the action of the United Nations with that of the organs of the American regional system.

29.    Fully conscious of the absolute necessity for the establishment of an autonomous organ for the promotion of industrial development, my Government was one of those which fought most vigorously for the setting up of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO).

30.    The Latin American countries took the initiative at the last session of the Assembly, and, with the support of the other developing countries and the sympathy of the industrialized countries, particularly the United States, a formula was found making possible the establishment of UNIDO, which will be one of the principal instruments of world economic development.

31.    Now that five years have elapsed since the Alliance for Progress was set in motion, on the basis of the principles formulated at Punta del Este, it can be seen, from analyses and assessments emanating from various sources, that the programme begun as a result of President Kennedy's generous initiative has failed to acquire the necessary solidity, vigour, and unity of purpose and action to give Latin America that strong impetus for social and economic progress which its development requires.

32.    It is argued with good reason, on the one hand, that the assistance received by the Latin American countries is not large enough nor granted under sufficiently flexible conditions taking into account the interests of the recipients. On the other hand, it is also frequently stated that there is not enough determination on the part of Latin American leaders to reform economic and social structures.

33.    Without going into a detailed analysis of that last assertion, I would say that it has a very relative degree of truth and is not generally applicable; moreover, it basically begs the question, since it is quite clear that it would be difficult to make a complete transformation of structures without first having adequate assistance and, even more, without fair treatment in fields outside the competence of the Alliance for Progress which are more related to the existing terms of foreign trade in the world. These and other related matters will be dealt with at the meeting of Heads of State of the countries of the Pan-American system, which will be a meeting of the utmost significance.

34.    We are aware of the limitations which the principles of the Charter impose on this Organization. The principle of sovereignty emphasizes the fact that no one is entitled to interfere in matters within the exclusive competence of States. The principle of equality rules out any type of action which might have an unfavourable effect on the international personality of any State. All this means that United Nations decisions represent positions the strength of which is the result of the weight of opinion supporting them.

35.    I have therefore been charged by my Government to express to this Assembly Its renewed faith in the destinies of the United Nations and in the Principles and Purposes on which the Charter is based and which we constantly practise.

36. In the world of today there are political anxieties which are striving to find expression. They relate, primarily, to the need to defend and confirm the value of the human person at every opportunity. Towards this end there is now a juridical movement aimed at giving form and practical content to the protection of human rights. The culmination of this process will mean the settlement of an old dispute between schools of thought and the establishment of man as a social unit in his rightful place.

37.    A part of this creative process has already been achieved. The Paris Declaration of 1948 was supplemented by the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man of the same year, although in fact the American document preceded the other chronologically. The States of the European union have achieved even more tangible progress with the establishment of an international protective jurisdiction. Similar progress is being made within the United Nations and the Organization of American States. All this means that we can view the future with optimism. For the time being, the stage reached in the studies and the specific projects which have been approved shows that the old idea that there were insurmountable obstacles preventing Governments from acting together in such matters, which traditionally lay within their domestic competence, has already been rejected.

38.    As is well known, side by side with the formulation and reaffirmation of principles there are certain problems that Influence the behaviour of Governments and direct or determine their international conduct. What the keynote of such problems is will determine whether there will be greater or lesser understanding in the management of affairs of State. It can be said that a characteristic of our age is the threat of crisis, or the periodic crises which impair international relations and create an atmosphere of general Insecurity. If we bear in mind the interdependence of modern life, we may conclude that any threat or unlawful action in any part of the world will inevitably have an unbalancing or disturbing effect in other areas, both because of the wider dissemination of universal ideas and because of the economic consequences that result from their being put into practice.

39.    At this point, therefore, I must express our most sincere hope, that the desire of the German people for unity will be realized within the legal framework established by the principle of the self-determination of peoples,

40.    There are no problems of broader scope or greater urgency than those affecting peace and security. Included among them are the problems of the economic and social development of the vast under-developed areas of the world, which are the seed from which the worst conflicts spring, because collective security is made up of a whole complex of situations requiring a total solution based on a unitary concept of legal, economic and social security.

41.    However, we are still far from such a concept of international order. The unitary concept of peace is jeopardized by the existence of many conflicts to which are applied partial solutions — barely satisfactory even for each specific case — without any universal criterion and without any consideration of the factors of interdependence which make the physical separation of States something relative, or a kind of provisional satisfaction of local needs.

42.    I should like to say that the Peruvian Government enthusiastically weLcomed the appeal of His Holiness the Pope for the restoration of peace in Viet-Nam, an appeal which has just been repeated in a most impressive way. The Government of my country is always ready to co-operate to achieve this humanitarian goal.

43.    There are still serious problems which are symptoms of the organic disturbance of our age. One of them even affects the future of the human race. I refer specifically to disarmament and the use and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. This is a dilemma which is of concern to the whole civilized world. While United Nations efforts are redoubled, certain political factors continue to influence the conduct of the Governments concerned and so far have nullified any decision on nuclear disarmament. Any favourable attitude has to be political; it has to be the result, or the consequence, of an atmosphere of confidence brought about by positive steps to meet the problems dividing the great Powers.

44.    My Government and people reject the use of nuclear energy for warlike purposes. This is true of all the Latin American countries which at this very moment are working to bring about an agreement, guaranteed by the major Powers concerned in the use of nuclear energy, to ensure the denuclearization of Latin America through the establishment of appropriate machinery.

45.    From what I have said, it is clear that there are great dangers lying In wait for civilization and peace. To eliminate them is the most constructive thing that statesmen can do and policies should be directed toward this end if we consider that it is policies that regulate the ethics of nations. But these are not the only dangers. I am not thinking only of a mental attitude to counter those dangers which loom largest. There are other dangers which threaten nations just as much. There are Indirect factors at work creating political anarchy and subversion in areas where all efforts should be directed toward promoting work and welfare. There have recently been some painful manifestations of the dangers of subversive infiltration, particularly for the peoples of the Americas. For this reason we have defended and we shall defend the principle of non-intervention, which is not, as one writer has observed, a position of isolation but one of security. This position has been one of the great American achievements and is today the keystone of its regional system of law.

46.    The American Republics therefore consider it an outstanding triumph of their legal tradition that the formula of non-intervention adopted by this Assembly last year is in line with the broader scope that they give to this principle.

47.    Now that this principle is part of positive international law, the sovereignty of States can be maintained within the proper limits of authority. This means that we must recognize that the political independence of States is the first aim of international solidarity, and therefore that the primary restriction that law imposes on States is to refrain from exerting any authority in the territory of another State. It follows that military occupation may not be imposed unilaterally, by the authority of one State, on the territory of another State. All emergency international action must be strictly limited, under the authority of the competent international bodies, in both duration and scope, by the needs which gave rise to it. This concept of respect for the personality of States, and the right of States to develop freely without the intervention or control of any other State, has a special significance at present: the claim that we, the Latin American States, are making for the principle of self-determination and for the right to assistance to counter foreign political activity aimed at disrupting or disturbing the life of our peoples and their idea of competence and authority in domestic affairs.

48.    This is a phenomenon which our age has developed to the full as a reflection of the crisis that exists in political and social philosophy. The danger at present resides in the struggle for zones of influence or for the development of a capricious policy of winning over States to particular political and economic doctrines. In view of the methods that are used in this matter, the Governments affected are obliged to increase their vigilance, strengthen their means of defence and, if necessary, resolutely oppose any policy of interference in their domestic affairs.

49.    Peru has given its firmest support to the principle of non-intervention and will unswervingly continue to defend world legal order, based on respect for the personality of States — as formed by the self- determination of peoples — and on faithful compliance with the obligations flowing from international treaties, an unalterable legal order which is laid down in the Charter of the United Nations and supported by the Organization of American States. Peru takes pride in the fact that its territory comprises not an inch more than was included in its original Constitution, a sacred and Inviolable achievement of the emancipation movement.

50.    I should like to place special emphasis on the rightful value which is now being placed in international circles on science and technology as factors with a basic effect on the progress of the developing countries.

51.    I should stress the advisability of ensuring that the developing countries receive the benefits of the continued and astounding advances of science and technology, not individually but as groups of countries, associated regionally or sub-regionally, due regard being paid, in addition, to the sectoral criteria relating to their application.

52.     It is obvious that, both regionally and sub- regionally, groups of countries offer the best opportunities both for the establishment of joint institutions and for the planned interchange of scientists and technicians, many of whom at present emigrate to highly developed countries. Moreover, the application of science and technology often encounters serious obstacles when methods appropriate to highly developed regions are adapted for economically and socially depressed areas.

53.    In this way groups or sub-groups of countries could have vast opportunities available to them, ranging from the field of pure research — which is inseparable from balanced scientific progress — to the most specialized of technological fields.

54.    All this is of particular significance for Latin America, a region in which the exploitation of natural resources offers enormous prospects but also requires a corresponding amount of properly co-ordinated effort to carry out the necessary evaluation and study of those resources.

55.    I have in mind in this connexion the case of South America, which has chosen to set up its development nuclei on its periphery, still leaving the centre of the subcontinent insufficiently developed, an area which comprises most of the eastern slopes of the Andes, which has vast resources and a dry tropical climate, and which is one of the areas with the greatest future in the world.

56.     There is one other thing which Is worthy of mention. The bodies of what is called the Pan-American system are always speaking In favour of the integration of the Latin American countries, a process which would require appropriate scientific and technological assistance.

57.    There are two groups of countries in Latin America which are carrying out separate forms of integration, which can of course be harmonized, and both groups have attained sufficient maturity to be able to make constructive use of the scientific and technological assistance they need.

58.    All the goals I have described will be achieved only to the extent that nations have enough vision and imagination to do what has to be done in close co-operation. It is to be hoped that international organizations will play the predominant role in bringing this about, particularly in the scientific and technological fields.

59.    The constant growth and ever-increasing complexity of international organizations makes it advisable to review the existing means of co-ordinating their activities and thus preventing duplication of effort and the wastage of resources which are so scanty compared with the needs of a world which is overwhelmed by the problems of the developing countries.

60.    There are difficult problems which require solutions proportionate to their size, such as the creation of new bodies, the increase in the activities and programmes of existing bodies, the proposed reorganization of the field services of some specialized agencies, together with the budgetary problems of regional offices and other similar problems that this entails.

61.    The efficiency and the efforts of the Secretary-General and the specialized agencies in carrying out the directives of both the General Assembly and the Economic and Social Council are well known, but perhaps the time has come to provide a more centralized and more comprehensive institutional framework with greater powers for the bodies which are responsible for co-ordination.

62.    This should not be confined to improving coordination among the various organs and bodies of the United Nations system. It is necessary to improve co-ordination with international bodies outside the system, especially with such regional bodies as the Organization of American States.

63.    In connexion with this question of co-ordination, I should like to recall the eloquent appeal made a few months ago by the Director-General of UNESCO that the assistance given by certain countries to others should be brought more into line with the programmes undertaken in similar fields by the specialized agencies of the United Nations.

64.    I shall conclude by stating in this Assembly that my Government is certain that the United Nations will continue to fulfil its lofty purposes. This is the best wish that we can express. It is the hope of our peoples as expressed in the public forum of international opinion. The Government of Peru resolutely maintains its support for the Charter of the United Nations and is a standard bearer for the policy of international peace and harmony. Here, in the organs of the UnitedNations, the representatives of my country have always struck a note of solidarity and conciliation in the heated discussions. We have always supported the rule of justice, for we consider it the supreme factor in any scale of human values. Whatever crises the United Nations may have to pass through should be viewed as so many steps along the long road still to be travelled towards the distant goals which are sought for the sake of all mankind.


===== Session 22 - 1967 =====
1. Mr. President, I am very pleased to extend to you my congratulations on your election to the Presidency of the General Assembly.
2. Speaking from this rostrum as head of the Peruvian delegation to the United Nations General Assembly, I should like to take this opportunity, on grounds of long and personal friendship, to pay a tribute to the memory of Victor Andrés Belaunde, whose spiritual life was bound up for more than twenty years with the establishment, activities and ideals of the United Nations, from the time when he participated in the preparation of the San Francisco Charter — which bears his signature — to the day when he died in this city, in the very midst, in fact, of the twenty-first session of the General Assembly, devoting his talent and eloquence to the Organization to the very end.
3. I myself had the honour to represent Peru at the first session of the United Nations General Assembly which was held in London in 1946. Addressing the Assembly then, as I do now, I expressed our concern at the relations which were beginning to develop between the great Powers and the small States in the post-war period. The international political scene of 1919 was being repeated, The useless sorrows of war were once again leading peoples along the path of stubborn hope to a new international organization, which this time would not bear the threadbare name of "League of Nations" but was to be entitled optimistically and euphemistically, the "United Nations".
 
4. Although the suffering world was experiencing political, social, economic and spiritual tremors, there survived the hope of an enduring and organized peace. However, two phenomena were recurring which carried in them the fatal seeds of new upheavals and traced the mistaken route which was inevitably to lead to further historical confrontations. The system of great Powers was maintained, unlimited and unchecked together with the power of veto, capable, because of the strength of those Powers, of frustrating both theoretical and ad hoc peace, and of frustrating also the will and desire of international democracy.
5. The other phenomenon which was repeated under the pressure of the last annihilating days of the Second World War was the re-establishment, through a precarious and uncertain balance of power, of an international law based on terror. The spectre of destruction and death was to preside, through the ensuing night of misery and lurking distrust, over mankind's stumbling progress towards a future that reason could not foresee nor hope discern. To the disarray, the confusion and the increased international tension were added some new elements. The first of these was the proliferation of new States which, owing to historical, political, economic and social factors, was inevitably to aggravate, in and outside the United Nations, the precarious relations between the great Powers and the smaller States.
6. Secondly — although this listing does not imply any order of priority — advances in science and the development of communications, while raising humanity's legitimate aspirations, increased the need for and the advantages of international aid and co-operation which — leaving aside the subtle political calculations of the great Powers — are a requirement and a mandate of the prevailing concept of human welfare.
7. Thirdly, this same science which, creating for itself an image by its practical achievements, has made a giant vault into space and has developed in laboratories formulas and wise theories in which intuition plays some part, is also carrying out experiments, in the atmosphere and underground, designed to ensure the world's certain destruction, if it continues to follow blindly its present course in international affairs.
8. These negative aspects — negative in that they are obstacles to peace and undermine international solidarity, are occurring and developing concurrently with a new spiritual climate of solidarity and understanding in which the primary concern of international law is man himself, for whose welfare such law must exist and ensure peace.
9. However, the painful and clear reality is that law and peace have not followed the same path, the path which, although wandering and sometimes turning back, has nevertheless been simply and clearly traced, throughout history, by the desire to promote human welfare. The paths of law and peace have diverged. To use a contemporary illustration, we might say that a wall Is being built out of the preponderance of the political and economic interests of some and the needs of others. This wall becomes higher and stronger whenever, in international affairs, the higher concept of human solidarity is diminished or ignored.
10. When we stop and, from our weak and tottering observation post, survey the recent past and immediate future of international peace, we are naturally confronted with the heart-rending and futile drama being enacted in Viet-Nam. As human beings and as Members of the United Nations, we would wish our eyes and ears not be assailed by so much suffering. We fail to understand why the parties to the conflict, if they sincerely wish to bring it to an honourable and humane end, are marking time outside the negotiating chamber while they discuss responsibilities that must be Judged by the future and not by those directly and passionately involved in the events.
11. The picture which Viet-Nam presents is one of horror for mankind. For reasons of humanity more important than this useless and unlimited military confrontation, the destruction must be brought to a halt. There is all the more justification for ending it as we know that a cease-fire is the logical prerequisite for any negotiation.
12. Were it not sardonic, discouraging and macabre to do so, we might describe a harrowing procession of the dead and the dying, not only men but also principles of international law, proclaimed by all and heeded now by few. What remains, beneath the mounds of rubble in Viet-Nam, of the great principles of independence, self-determination, neutrality and non-intervention?
13. Certain Powers are the protectors, the allies of, almost the spokesmen for, one of the local factions involved in the war in Viet-Nam. They claim that they are fulfilling commitments based on the world situation and their own national policy requirements. Other Powers, for similar reasons, declare their willingness to lend the other side economic, political and military aid, a position more resembling that of actual allies of the belligerents.
14. The Middle East question is also a cause of concern and sorrow to the Members of the United Nations as well as to other peoples who, if no better, are comparable to those who are more immediately and directly involved. In this matter it is inescapable that we respect and uphold the decisions of this Organization.
15. It is recognized that the case of Israel is unique in international law, for Israel is a State created by the formal will of the international community, expressed by the legitimate organs of the United Nations. Those organs, therefore, have a primary obligation to maintain that which their work created. Unless they do so unequivocally and resolutely, they will appear as discredited judges who amass dossiers and reports and pollute the air with words, while the litigants are assaulting and wounding each other on the battlefield, constantly imperilling the lives of onlookers.
 
16. There appears to be virtually unanimous agreement that aggression and force cannot be tolerated as a means of creating situations of law, unless for the purpose of maintaining and ensuring respect for law itself. However, correction of the measures which may have been employed for reasons not even fully known or understood cannot be a condition for recognition of the existence of a State, when its existence is the result, not of conquest or rebellion, the outcome of which seem to be accepted and approved nowadays in international law, but of the implementation of a decision of the international community which affirmed and upheld the principle of self-determination.
17. It is guided by that principle that we Peruvians maintain our traditional position. Self-determination is a constant in our international relations. The Peruvian State was founded on that principle. We have invariably upheld it in all our dealings concerning frontier demarcation, in the disputes to which incomplete solutions occasionally gave rise, and even in our protests and efforts to have errors corrected. We cannot fail to insist on application of the same principle in international conflicts between other States, however remote and little understood those conflicts may be.
18. The problem of Gibraltar is neither political nor legal in the accepted sense and customary definition of those words. It is a problem of decolonization which has peculiar features of its own. There was an unjust annexation for political and military reasons, with a view to future strategic geography. There was also an annexation of a portion of territory not disputed or taken possession of in any way at the outset and there was a displacement of the original population and an expansion of territorial occupation beyond the exact limits of the original concession.
19. At this new stage of the Gibraltar problem Spain is not only supported by history and the simple moral and logical arguments based on the background to the problem, but is seeking a solution in keeping with present-day realities and principles. The political and military aims that led to the original events no longer' exist, and the new concept of decolonization must give Spain encouragement and support so that it may again hoist its flag on the once merely historic but today symbolic Rock of Gibraltar.
20. Another case of an old legacy of current international concern is that of the Malvinas Islands, over which, by reason of certain circumstances, the United Kingdom extended its rule, whereas the Islands rightly belong to the Argentine Republic, the legitimate heir to Spain's legal title to the Islands themselves and the neighbouring mainland. In this case, as In that of Gibraltar, it is useless to turn to the diplomatic dialectic used by the ruling Power since, in the light of current principles and realities of international law and policy, this is a case of decolonization which must surely lead, not to a local autonomy and independence which would not be in keeping with the historical antecedents, but to the restoration and recognition of legitimate sovereignty. The strategic considerations which determined the United Kingdom's possession of the Malvinas Islands and Gibraltar no longer have any validity. 
21. In our view, the principle of self-determination cannot be applied in the case of Gibraltar or the Malvinas Islands. Its application is ruled out by two essential facts which entirely preclude any expression of the will of the original inhabitants. When indigenous inhabitants have been directly or indirectly expelled from a territory; when, over a long period of time, economic and social conditions have developed which have made it impossible for them to continue dwelling where there is no employment or decent livelihood; and when those who would rightfully be entitled to exercise self-determination are no longer present, self-determination ceases to be of great moral and juridical significance and becomes instead a device to conceal the truth behind empty or insincere formulas.
22. As is generally known, a consultative meeting of Foreign Ministers convened by the Organization of American States, was held in Washington on 22 September last to consider once again the situation of our countries in the light of the intellectually corrosive and politically interventionist attitude of the Government of Cuba. That Government is seeking to interfere with the institutional system which our countries' civic self-determination has established since their independence, and which they are trying, despite periodical changes and setbacks, to consolidate and perfect in order to strengthen their independence and the essential democratic freedoms and human rights whose achievement is the best assurance of the political, moral and juridical welfare of their citizens.
23. Peru, in addition to agreeing, as on other occasions, to concerted action and continental solidarity against foreign aggression, expressed in particular at that meeting its solidarity with the Republic of Venezuela, with which it has long had fraternal ties and which revealed and denounced before the Organization of American States the interference of the Government of Cuba in its internal problems.
24. Our position on this question has never changed, will never change, and never can change. We are proud that, in the course of the international history of the Americas, we often took the initiative in diplomatic and even military measures — in 1847, 1856 and 1866 for example — to reject intervention in the Americas by those who would have conspired against our political regime and our institutions.
25. Our position in those instances was one of consistent opposition to intervention, as it was in the case of other problems which arose within the geographical area of the American continent. We would therefore be failing to live up to the demands of our history and abandoning our faith in the democratic solidarity of the Americas were we not prepared to oppose any form of intervention, whether it comes, unfortunately, from another American republic or whether its source lies in ill-concealed political interests outside the continent.
26. Peru is following with great interest and confidence the increasing activity of the United Nations in the economic field, activity aimed primarily at alleviating human poverty in many parts of the world, improving basic living conditions, ensuring planned national development as a source of employment and to provide basic needs, promoting industrialization to secure technological advancement and progressive improvement of welfare and ensuring the most equitable distribution of wealth possible as the moral goal of contemporary civilization.
27. In this connexion, we intend to made a special effort, at this session of the General Assembly, at which we have been honoured with the chairmanship of the Second Committee, to contribute in the most rational and practical manner possible to the achievement of these ends. We have contributed in the same way in the past in the Economic and Social Council; in the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which we helped to establish; in the United Nations Industrial Development Organization and in the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programme. We shall also be considering, on the basis of our own experience, the benefits of assistance to the developing countries and of technical and financial planning.
28. In order to achieve the goals which I have mentioned, we believe it is necessary to lay down certain conditions based, not on economic considerations, but on political and juridical factors that must not be overlooked or under-estimated. Without these conditions, the painfully erected and outwardly striking edifice of a prosperous economy can become a cumbersome structure which imprisons economic independence, compromises political independence and lowers the dignity of men and nations, thus making them galley slaves navigating wearily and hopelessly on an unknown course leading far from their legitimate objectives.
29. In the higher interest of a more equitable cooperation between people, and in the light of the damaging experience of mistakes which we made, sometimes through necessity, we Peruvians have agreed, and will continue to agree, to fair but controlled participation by foreign capital in our development. Because of longstanding and strong national convictions, however, we are not prepared to grant any privileges, concessions, exemptions or general or specific advantages which might turn economic, technical and financial cooperation into dependency or a trusteeship.
30. That is, frankly, our position. As far as the current United Nations Development Decade is concerned, we note both within and outside the United Nations a greater measure of discouragement than of satisfaction or even hope. The developing countries have obtained only a small part of what they legitimately hoped for; the scarcity of multilateral and collective aid has worsened their credit situation and is leading them to the slippery slope of inflation.
31. We are well aware that international aid or assistance schemes are based on the assumption that the recipient countries will make a direct contribution to their own development, making their own special and continuing contribution to the co-operative effort through their toil, austerity and even sacrifices, through their driving enthusiasm and shining faith. That is why we Peruvians proudly lay claim to being first in the field, in the Americas, in achieving what in our country is referred to as the co-operation of the people. The term has also been used outside Peru, as a conscious symbol of human endeavour. 
32. It is also well known because of the repercussions of the proclamation and its underlying Justice, that three countries of the South Pacific—Peru, Chile and Ecuador—have proclaimed a new law of the sea which is in keeping with geographical, economic and biological as well as human realities. This law gives to the coastal States exclusive rights of Jurisdiction for the control and exploitation of the maritime areas over which they have proclaimed their territorial sovereignty.
33. An increasing number of Latin American States, including Argentina and some countries of Central America, have also issued similar proclamations, while other countries, basing themselves, for reasons of self-interest, on non-existent or outworn concepts, have adopted speculative positions of power which have been reflected in the frequent and, in our view, illegal activities of their nationals.
34. Against this background and in this situation which is being improperly or unjustly maintained by certain Powers, we shall examine, realistically and with open minds, but most carefully, the proposal, included in the agenda of the twenty-second session of the General Assembly [A/6695] at the request of Malta, for a study of the possibilities of peaceful utilization of the seabed, without prejudice to present national jurisdiction.
35. We are not unaware of the benefits which mankind could derive from the basic aim of the Maltese proposal, namely, that of preventing any Powers from initiating large-scale exploitation of the riches of the sea-bed. Nor are we unaware of the fact that certain other countries, whether or not situated close to the ocean floor, are technologically and financially more capable of such undertakings. However, we share Malta's wish that such undertakings should be restricted to peaceful utilization of the resources of the sea-bed, observing existing areas of national jurisdiction that have been proclaimed and will be maintained by those countries which advocate a new law of the sea to protect and defend their maritime wealth and the welfare of their people.
36. In this area, where we see international politics abandoning law or even opposing it or attempting to bend it to its interests, we should turn more frequently to international legal instance which the United Nations created, as a supreme and far-sighted expression of its ideals, in the International Court of Justice, that least ambitions and least pretensions of United Nations organs in that it lacks powers to initiate measures and has no jurisdiction other than that which States choose to grant it.
37. However, If the idea of peace is the reason for the founding, the efforts and the hopes of the United Nations — if ideally — there cannot be peace without justice; and if all human conflicts can find in justice the path which leads straight to peace, then States, if they are not prepared — as they seem not to be — to stand charged with basic insincerity, must show a greater readiness to accept juridical settlement of their differences. This solution, moreover, will be all the more realistic, since, as Montesquieu put it, laws are simply necessary relationships resulting from the nature of things.
 
38. We see no reason to disguise the scepticism we feel regarding the international situation, which has deteriorated markedly in recent times. The great Powers, openly or tacitly using their strength and their fatal right of veto, are frustrating the possibilities offered by international co-operation for a negotiated peace; they offer us instead an imposed peace which, by definition, is unjust or may lead to the tragic and inevitable abyss of death and destruction of the human beings for whose moral aspirations and well-being international law, international relations, and the United Nations itself were created.
39. Faced with this reality of action or inaction by the great Powers — choices unavailable to the smaller countries — the latter stand impotent and all the light of their humanism, all their stubborn aspirations, which have sometimes illuminated the pages of history, cannot prevail. Our claims and aspirations thus become but vain demands.
40. A great feeling of frustration, affecting the very being and raison d'être of the United Nations, has been obscuring our hopes; we have become embittered at the prospect of being the victims of the action or inaction, the blindness, yes — let us say it bluntly — the incompetence, of the great Powers, whose vacillating attitude is blocking our horizon and barring our way. While those Powers have shown an impressive ability to transport human intelligence to the far corners of space, they reveal themselves incapable, at the same time, of ensuring the welfare of man on his own planet.


===== Session 24 - 1969 =====
31. Let my first words pay a well-deserved tribute to
the memory of Mr. Emilio Arenales, who presided with
wisdom and dedication over the work of the twenty-third
session of the United Nations General Assembly, and whose
untimely death has deprived us of his enlightened counsel
in the work of international understanding entrusted to him
by the community of nations. At the same time, I wish to
express our appreciation of the honour conferred on
Dr. Luis Alvarado of completing the duties of the Presidency.

32. And now on behalf of my Government, and personally
as well, Madam President, I am happy to offer you our
sincerest congratulations on your election as President of
this Assembly. It is, indeed, a source of satisfaction that a
lady of your worth has been elected to discharge so high an
office, and we are confident that you will bring to it all the
impartiality, judgement and tact vouchsafed by your past
accomplishments.

33. At the same time, I feel it is incumbent upon me to
make particular reference to the activities of our Secretary-General, 
U Thant, who has striven valiantly and indefatigably to solve the difficult and complex problems submitted to him.

34. This is also a suitable occasion for expressing our
congratulations to the International Labour Organisation,
which is now celebrating its fiftieth anniversary in the
search for social justice, and to its Director, Mr. David A.
Morse, whose unstinting devotion to the service of that
organization has deservedly received the unanimous
acknowledgement of workers, employers and Governments.

35. I also wish to express the satisfaction of the Government
and the delegation of Peru at the recent admission of
new Member States to the United Nations. With that step
the legitimate aspirations of their peoples have reached
their culmination. At the same time, we are drawing ever
closer to the full implementation of the principle of the
universality of the Organization and widening the possibilities 
of strengthening it with the contribution of new
initiatives to achieve international co-operation and solidarity.

36. On behalf of the Revolutionary Government of Peru, I
bring the message and the hopes of a people earnestly
engaged in the achievement of integration and brotherhood,
regarded as the only just and desirable basis for peace and
general well-being.

37. I have not come to this Assembly merely as a
formality but to speak to you with absolute frankness
about what is being thought and done in my country with
regard to both national and universal problems which not
only interest us but also affect us. I must begin by saying
that at home we feel a deep sense of disappointment—and
at the same time a clear awareness of our responsibilities as
a Government—at the lack of any international concerted
effort to put an end to the confrontations and sufferings
which still afflict the majority of the world’s peoples.

38. Most ordinary people view with scepticism, if not
exasperation, the repetition of speeches that no one listens
to, lyrical but unimplemented resolutions on peace, the
independence of States, human rights and international
co-operation, while men are dying on the battlefield,
countries still labour under colonial régimes or under
pressure from more powerful nations, all sorts of practices
flourish that violate the dignity of persons and the
aspirations of peoples, and selfishness and injustice continue 
to hold sway in economic relations between the various nations.

39. The exploit that scarcely two months ago carried the
first men to alight on the moon is undoubtedly the greatest
triumph of science and technology of our time. We all
followed it enthusiastically and joined, either publicly
privately, in the satisfaction of the United States Government 
and people at the success of an undertaking which,
apart from its own great merits, has also strengthened the
faith of humanity in the achievement of new conquests as
yet undreamed of.

40. I must confess, however, that we are less optimistic
about the problems still besetting us on our own planet,
among countries separated by much shorter distances, but
much deeper divergencies—I would even say sometimes by
abysses—when we compare the wealth, progress and happiness 
of some with the wretchedness, backwardness and anxiety of the rest.

41. Today, as yesterday, the challenge and crucial task of
our generation must still be that of achieving peace,
security and the welfare of all nations, so that we may
eradicate the causes of tension and conflict, of hegemony
and dependence, of rivalry and hatred, and be able to live
together in a more just and worthy order, in which
freedom, equality and fraternity will no longer be mere
slogans of frustrated ideals, but facts that all human beings
can experience.

42. It is to this endeavour that all Governments and
peoples are dedicated, both those that have attained a high
standard of living and those still subsisting in sub-human
conditions, because the difference between them is not the
result of chance, nor of the intrinsic superiority of some
and inferiority of others, but of a series of circumstances in
which social factors—wherein exploitation and abuse have
not been unknown—have played a part.

43. The Peruvian revolution, which began scarcely 11
months ago, was born as a response to the deepest needs of
our people. From the outset, it has obeyed an exclusively
independent conception, which seeks to draw from the
reality of Peru itself the inspiration and the drive which will
weld together the efforts of an entire country in one
creative undertaking and help to forge a truly just and truly
free social order.

44. The Conquistadors, who arrived over 400 years ago in 
what is now Peru, tried to transplant the forms of an old
society into a new world that was already peopled by an
extraordinarily gifted indigenous population. Three centuries 
later, political independence had still not brought
about any fundamental change in the economic, social and 
cultural structure that had been established during colonial days.

45. During the century and a half of republican life that
followed, the disparity between the wealthy few and the
mass of the population remained unchanged, when it did
not actually increase. Apart from the cases of a few
exceptionally able or ambitious men, power, great estates
and businesses were all retained effortlessly in the hands of
the dominant group, while employees, workers and
especially the peasants lived in dismal circumstances and
with little or no hope of improvement, due to the economic
and cultural limitations imposed upon them by the society
of that time.

46. The passage from a stratified structure of closed social 
groups to one of more mobile components was thus clearly
impossible until the last decade. It is obvious, in the light of
this situation, of which I have drawn only the merest
outline, that radical changes and urgent reforms were
needed to transform the structure of Peruvian society.

47. This was the aim of the revolution, to clear for our
people the way to true social justice, and we are carrying
our revolution through in order to shatter forever the
traditional patterns of a basically unjust social and economic 
system. We are fighting to complete the independence of our 
country and to free it from its situation as
an under-developed country. Under-development and
dependence, which is its corollary, have been the dominant
features of the structure of Peru’s economy. It is against
these that the revolution is directed, because we are
convinced that so long as they continue to exist, our people
will continue to be the victims of exploitation and
ignorance, because we have seen that both these factors
lead to the concentration of power in the hands of small
privileged groups, while other vast sectors remain on the
fringe of society and, finally, because we know full well
that so long as we remain under-developed and dependent,
we shall never be masters of our own destiny as a free and
fully sovereign nation.

48. Thus the essential features of our revolution can be
summed up in two words: what is taking place in Peru is a
nationalist revolution. The status quo is being shaken to its
very roots. We are changing the face and the traditional
structure of Peru; but we are doing so by creating, not
importing solutions, by proclaiming the right, the responsibility 
and the duty to decide, by and for ourselves, the
direction and the means of this beneficial change. Peru will
never again be the country it was prior to the revolution. Of
what we were and of our past, we shall preserve whatever
will be of help in the building of our future. But we shall
abandon—indeed we are already doing so—all that is useless
dead weight in the salvage operation to make our country a
new and better country for ail Peruvians.

49. While we are nationalists, we are also humanists,
because we are imbued with a profound social feeling. We
believe that the first duty of the State is to ensure the
sovereignty and development of the nation, but that the
final goal is man, not one group, one sector or one class.

50. The keystones of our revolutionary ideal are independence and structural transformation, and these two concepts constitute an emotional binomial through which development becomes the most perfect synonym of social peace. We aim for development not as a mere instrument of prosperity, improvement or modernization of the present
social order, since that might lead us to industrial capitalism, but as an instrument to eliminate inequalities and social injustice and to establish a new democratic system with no room for privileges based on class or on political, economic or religious factors. 

51. Our nationalism represents an intention to achieve the
effective social cohesion of the country, an effort to bolster
political unity, to strengthen the economy and to complete
our independence. It finds sustenance in the moral and
spiritual resources of our people, in all that is positive in
our collective characteristics and in the imperative need to
preserve and strengthen them. We aim at social and
economic development but without sacrificing our truly
national traditions and institutions.

52. Therefore, to those who often ask us about the nature
of the process or, without asking, try to identify us with
political movements in other countries, we must clearly
explain that we are pursuing a Peruvian policy, free from
foreign trammels and orientations. We are nationalists and
revolutionaries: we seek Peruvian solutions to the problems
and needs of Peru.

53. We are struggling to consolidate our sovereignty, to
defend our legitimate interests and to enable our people to
achieve better standards of life, in keeping with the dignity
of the human person. We are firmly convinced that this
struggle will strengthen a national awareness that will allow
us to lay the foundations of a truly free and independent
society, one ready to achieve its objectives by its own
efforts, free from the shackles of conformity or foreign
dependence; a society in which man is both the beginning
and the end, the cause and the effect of our action, for
there would be no sense in advocating revolutionary change
unless it were for the direct and full advantage of Peruvian
citizens.

54. Revolutionary transformation, which is the very
essence of the new Peruvian policy, has taken the shape of
acts to reform the organic and essential features of the
country.

55. The first of these acts was not strictly a reform, but
rather the exercise of national sovereignty in confrontation
with a foreign oil company which, through its own
economic power and the protection accorded to it, had for
many years enjoyed a position of singular privilege,
contrary to our law. By this act in strict conformity with
existing laws that, in the past, had not been enforced
through fear of international pressure, a long-standing claim
for justice was redressed, and a need for legitimate
reparation was met, while at the same time a clear and
conclusive response was given to one of the vital economic
needs of the country, a need that the Government was
determined to satisfy.

56. The Peruvian position in this case involved decisions
inherent in the full exercise of State sovereignty, but this
exercise was not arbitrary. On the contrary, it confined
itself strictly to classic Peruvian law which, in accordance
with the tenets of almost all nations of the world,
condemns usurpation and monopolies—especially in the
case of mineral resources, which belong to the whole
people. This was the situation to which Peru, juridically and
in full exercise of its sovereignty, has put an end. Our
decision is supported by international obligations derived
from the Charter of the United Nations itself, and
repeatedly acknowledged in this Assembly, not only concerning 
the recognition of the right of every State to
administer and exploit its own natural resources, but also
forbidding other States to interfere in such administration.

57. The international order repudiates all forms of intervention. 
When the latter takes the form of economic pressure or sanctions, it becomes a form of aggression that is all the more unethical and unjust when directed against a people that is peacefully endeavouring to overcome the obstacles to its own under-development. 
In these circumstances, what is most incumbent upon any great 
industrialized nation, and in general upon all those enjoying the
benefits of exploiting the world’s riches, is, as a basic duty,
to co-operate unconditionally with those countries which,
by their own free decision and assuming inevitable risks,
undertake the historical task of trying to expedite their
progress and carry through a profound and rational structural change.

58. The decrees promulgated by the Peruvian Government
in reclaiming the nation’s oil, which constitutes its main
energy resource, are, therefore, sovereign decisions, both
legal and necessary. They are sovereign, because they come
from an independent State, a Member of this world
Organization; they are legal because they are based on
custom and legal provisions which have been in force since
the days of the Incas and on laws which govern Peru today
within a system similar to that of the majority of States;
and they are necessary, because they are indispensable if we
are to forge ahead and really overcome our national
under-development.

59. Such a strong position notwithstanding, the Peruvian
ordinance offers the widest guarantees under which, in
defence of its interests, any firm may have recourse either
to the administrative authorities or to the courts of the
land. Of course, this is not a system which we ourselves
have devised, since it is to be found in almost all countries,
but it allows both employees and companies the opportunity 
of various stages of recourse to the government, as was the 
case with Peruvian oil, or of a series of applications
and appeals to the Peruvian courts.

60. We therefore consider that any measure of pressure or
sanction against Peru for defending its public oil heritage
and its new energy policy would be tantamount to open
intervention and economic aggression in violation of international undertakings which were considered to have
replaced the old system of diplomatic protection so
abusively used in the past to shield financial interests. But
that system, of which so much could be said by the
developing countries, is one which we are putting an end to
once and for all, since it bespoke a form of intervention
which Peru has always rejected; and we are rejecting it again
from this rostrum, since we regard it as not only an attack
on the independence of States, but also as totally contrary
to the noble principles of the United Nations.

61. In order to achieve the fundamental aim of the
Revolutionary Government—that is, to promote higher
standards of living, compatible with human dignity, in the
less privileged sectors of the population—and to do so in
accordance with the recommendations of the Punta del
Este Meeting of American Presidents of the Papal
Encyclicals and of the United Nations, my country has
embarked on a genuine agrarian reform, which has received
the unanimous support of our people and the fullest
international endorsement. The new law has not only done
away with archaic privileges but, by radically changing the
traditional structure of the Peruvian system of land tenure,
has laid the groundwork for a total economic reconstruction 
of the country. The agrarian reform constitutes the
most complete structural transformation ever undertaken in
our country. Its repercussions on all aspects of national life
will be enormous and it will open the way to social justice
by encouraging the emergence and strengthening of middle
and proletarian sectors of the population who, with ever
increasing awareness of their interests, will provide the
leaders which the country needs to consolidate the new
ordering of society.

62. Peru has always depended on its mineral wealth and,
today, this wealth appears as the one resource whose
exploitation is the key to the economic future of the
country. The vast mining potential of Peru is, and will be,
the basic element in the foreign trade sector of our
economy and its development will to a large extent
determine the rate of growth of the country. Accordingly,
the Government has, with all the desired urgency, adopted
measures to ensure the immediate exploitation of these
resources in order to correct the huge disparity between the
present levels of production and the estimated and known
reserves and mining potential of the country.

63. The aforementioned measures in no way alter the
policy of the Revolutionary Government to encourage and
help investors, from wherever they may come, so long as
they are ready to work within the spirit and the letter of
the laws of the Republic. In the mining sector we offer
investors opportunities which are undoubtedly among the
best to be found.

64. I also wish to mention the reform in regard to business
undertakings which will be carried out in due course in
Peru. Inaccurate reports about this have been circulated
which may tend to create an adverse picture both within
the country and abroad. It should be made quite clear, as
the President of the Republic recently stated, that:

“The Revolutionary Government will not turn private
undertakings in co-operatives, except in those cases
provided for in the recent agrarian reform law. The
measures envisaged do not disavow the legitimate rights
stemming from ownership of the means of production; on
the contrary, they will be devised to encourage investment 
and industrial modernization and, consequently, to
stimulate development.”

65. The reform in regard to business undertakings, therefore, 
is in no way intended to prejudice the interests of
business owners, but to bring them into harmony with
those of the workers, strictly within the bounds of justice.
In all this change, the State is playing a dynamic and
encouraging role, and for this purpose we have revised its
organization so as to give it the necessary capacity and
vitality as well as the legal and functional instruments by
which to carry out its activities effectively in conjunction
with the efforts of groups of businessmen imbued with the
same intentions of ensuring development for the national
good.

66. All these achievements are being secured without the
violence that has usually accompanied such radical changes
elsewhere, This bloodless revolution, this profound and
peaceful change that is being accomplished in Peru, is an
unparalleled experience that fits into none of the patterns,
blueprints or models of the past.

67. Those of us who have initiated this nationalist
revolution will not see the best of its fruits; they will be for
future generations. The revolution has no other beneficiary
but the people of Peru themselves. It was initiated for them
and for them it is being carried through. Our children will
inherit a very different and a better country than we
received from our forefathers.

68. This is the picture of the Peru of today, a Peru in
which the co-ordinates of the revolution lie in the dialectics
of development and the humanism of a social democracy
and in which our historic destiny is at stake and will be won
or lost in the next few years.

69. The features and objectives of the process—briefly
described above-—through which Peruvian society is at
present passing are reflected in the external sphere and
correspond to a conception of international society and of
the part to be played in it by Peru.

70. The distinguishing feature—we might almost say the
phenomenon—that particularly characterizes the world of
today, has been the concentration of the power of nations
around two poles, each of which is organized within its own
system. In addition to these two groups, which constitute
vast economic areas and co-ordinated political complexes,
there is the group of non-aligned nations, uncommitted to
the struggle between the dominant great Powers. Within
some of these three sectors or on their periphery, there is a
large category of nations which, although at different levels,
possess the common denominator of under-development
and a limited capacity to produce what they need.

71. Like the majority of the countries of Latin America,
Peru faces a slow rate of economic and social progress, a
dependent economy, backward structures, obstacles to
national integration and low educational and technological
levels, the effect of all this being aggravated by the urgent
needs resulting from very rapid population growth. These
facts make us one with the developing world. Yet we
cannot refrain from feeling that there are other factors
which single us out from many such countries: our political
development over 150 years of independent life; our
cultural background, rooted in ancient indigenous civilizations, 
yet strongly marked, too, by the imprint of Western civilization.

72. Our affinities with the whole of the developing world
are identical, and we can therefore expect them to be a new
creative dimension in the pursuit of peace and well-being.
On the other hand, our links with the sphere of world
power in which we move do not always offer the same
encouraging perspectives. In that relationship, there are
contradictory tendencies at work that hamper, if they do
not cancel out, more fruitful possibilities of co-operation.
This seriously impedes any harmonious movement forward
towards progress and even jeopardizes international
security, since the thwarting of the legitimate aspirations of
a developing people must create a dangerous distortion in
its thinking. If, for argument’s sake, we take a society like
that of Peru as an example, we would have to start from the
very simple fact that, as far as it is concerned, only some
positive and lasting achievement in the sphere of welfare
could justify an effort and give meaning to national
security, to say nothing of making it feel that it forms an
integral part of a system of collective security at the 
international level. The concepts of welfare, development
and security are thus very closely and permanently connected 
with those of poverty and exploitation, which lie at
the very roots of under-developed nations and exacerbate
an explosive situation, the ramifications of which I should
not wish to dramatize here in strong terms.

73. The antagonism between the two poles of power is as 
prejudicial to them as it is to the rest of the countries of the
world, which are forced to adopt attitudes not always in 
keeping with their own interests and aspirations. That is
why the international community must do all it can to 
further the healthy and growing trend towards mutual 
understanding and rapprochement, and the attempts 
evident today in both systems to appreciate each other’s 
positive achievements and to collaborate in joint undertakings. 
If, on both sides, the conviction gains ground that
the struggle, for hegemony is mistaken and futile and that it
must give way to competition in favour of development, 
with sights set on general security and welfare, then we
shall be able to realize the most cherished ideal of mankind, 
namely, one world, one single bloc of nations.

74. The Revolutionary Government of Peru, in its foreign
policy, has acted in conformity with the concepts I have 
outlined, expanding its relations wherever possible,
defending its right to development and collaborating with
other countries in the process of integration and in the
establishment of new forms of international co-operation.

75. One of its first acts was to extend the country’s
diplomatic relations to those parts of the world from
which, for political or ideological reasons, it was estranged.
The new Government has established permanent missions in
the countries of Eastern Europe, convinced that thereby it
is serving the cause of peace, co-operation and the universal
vocation of this world body. We also believe that on the
basis of mutual respect, we shall be able to benefit from the
experience and the contributions of those countries, and we
shall seek forms of co-operation and exchange that will be
of mutual advantage. 

76. As I explained when speaking of internal developments 
in my country, Peru has had to wage a hard battle in
defence of the right to enjoy its own natural resources. The 
legitimate act of exercise of national sovereignty whereby 
the Revolutionary Government regained possession of that 
wealth has caused serious difficulties in our international
relations and in the credit policies of some countries and
certain bodies, We believe that these incidents reveal a
singular lack of, understanding of domestic decisions that 
come within the law and meet imperative requirements of
national sovereignty. Furthermore, we cannot accept the
claim to identify the general interest of a State with the
private interest of a company. A number of peoples and
Governments which have offered us their support have 
understood our position and I wish to take this opportunity
of reiterating to them my country’s profound gratitude for
their spontaneous expressions of solidarity.

77. Those familiar with the geography of Peru know that
its wide desert-like coastal belt is compensated for by the
natural fruitfulness and wealth of the sea washing its shores.
Over 20 years ago, my country, aware of this natural 
wealth, whose existence has been scientifically demonstrated 
and which is peculiar to the Peruvian sea, proclaimed 
its jurisdiction and sovereignty over the coastal
waters to the extent necessary to reserve, protect, preserve
and utilize rationally their marine resources. The system
subsequently established with other countries of the south-east 
Pacific in defence of the same principles has been the
subject of diverse interpretations which, based as they are
on obsolete provisions which have been superseded by
scientific progress and by the need to adapt ourselves to
history, tend to overlook the rights of coastal States.

78. We must state clearly that these rights stem from the
undeniable need of coastal States to ensure the preservation
of the marine resources in their coastal waters in order to
feed their peoples and to benefit their national economy.
This need becomes even more imperative in the case of
countries whose precarious economic development and low
protein intake obliges them to multiply their efforts to
improve the living standards of their people.

79. We are in duty bound to overcome the disparity
between the wealth of our fisheries and the low nutritional
level of our people. The nutritional deficit, caused by the
lack of other resources, not only makes it difficult to meet
the needs of a growing population, but forces us to devote a
large portion of the country’s hard-won foreign exchange to
imports of consumer goods, with serious detriment to
industrial development and the execution of other projects
crucial to my country’s social and economic progress.

80. Obviously, Peru does not claim that the norms it has
laid down to defend its own marine resources are the same
for all States. The law must always be adapted to reality
and if geographical, like economic and social features, differ
from one continent to the other and even within the same
continent, it is both logical and necessary that the laws
regulating them must also differ.

81. There are countries which, in order to exploit the vast
wealth of the sea-bed adjacent to their coasts, have also
extended their jurisdiction beyond the traditional limits of
their territorial waters to the edge of the continental shelf.
Surely such a right can hardly be denied to those States
whose continental shelf is minimal or almost non-existent
but which have the same, if not greater need, to preserve
and utilize the living resources of the waters adjacent to
their territory.

82. It must also be borne in mind that the measures
adopted in this matter do not preclude foreign ships from
fishing in the region under the jurisdiction of the coastal
State, nor in any way limit freedom of navigation on the
seas. They merely establish the usual regulations enabling
fishing vessels to carry on their activities, without inadmissible depredations, and even to make use of port facilities
on the same conditions as national vessels.

83. In claiming for the coastal State the rights of
sovereignty, jurisdiction and control over the sea adjacent
to its coasts to the extent necessary for the protection of
marine resources, we have no intention of creating disorder
or anarchy in the oceans, as has sometimes been said. What
we do wish to set up is a more equitable system that would
be based on modern scientific and juridical concepts and
would be deeply rooted in the social and economic needs of
under-developed peoples—a system, in short, that would
not be governed by political or military considerations or
by powerful economic interests, which largely determined
most of the rules of international maritime law in the past.

84. We trust that that is how the matter will be understood 
by the other States of the international community,
both by those highly developed nations which have
declared their willingness to co-operate with us in our
efforts towards progress, and by those in the process of
development, and that they will realize what this policy
means as a defence of principles and resources which are
essential in order to ensure our welfare and advancement.

85. This leads me to my next theme: the concerting of
inter-State policies as an instrument of individual and
collective progress. Although the primary and fundamental
condition for the development of each country must be its
own efforts, these are obstructed not only by internal
limitations but by the effects of other countries’ activities.
It, therefore, becomes imperative to arrange forms of joint
action with a wider perspective, which is inspired in some
cases by community of origin with other national entities
and which includes the search for economic integration as a
means of promoting common interests and effective acceleration 
of development. This new system, in which
individual effort is joined with the concerted efforts of a
group of nations, is a response to one of the imperatives of
our time, which is the result of increasing interdependence
and which leads us to the creation of vast economic regions
as an indispensable requirement in order to achieve, at one
and at the same time, the progress of each of the
components and of the group as a whole.

86. Latin America has not escaped this process and has
put into operation a number of schemes for regional and
sub-regional integration, despite the enormous difficulties
due to its geography and its political, economic and social
systems. Peru is actively participating in this undertaking,
from which we expect effective benefits for the development 
of the Latin American peoples, for their affirmation
of their independence and for their meaningful participation 
in international relations.

87. But even were the integrationist process which we are
witnessing to be successfully completed, it would still not
suffice to fulfil Latin America’s aspirations. The continuous
widening of the scientific and technological gap between
Latin America and the developed world and the growing
imbalance in world trade make it necessary to establish new
forms of co-operation aimed at ensuring equal access by all
peoples to the benefits of progress, science and technology.
The international community has not yet succeeded in
devising a system whereby this goal could be reached. On
the contrary, a state of affairs has been brought about
which, if allowed to persist, could lead only to the
frustration of huge masses of human beings and thus
engender even greater threats to world peace and security.

88. We must point out clearly—and we do so at this
Assembly—that we envisage international co-operation as a 
commitment free from all forms of intervention in the
internal or external affairs of other States and from any
encroachment on their integrity and the political, economic
and cultural elements which constitute it; that we believe
rational exploitation of national resources indispensable for
the preservation and development of each country; that we
cannot accept economic co-operation subject to political or
military conditions; that we cannot admit the use or
encouragement of measures of economic or political coercion 
designed to force the sovereign will of States in order
to obtain advantages of any sort; and, finally, that we reject
the adoption, indeed the very existence, of policies, actions
or measures the mere invoking of which might threaten the
economic and social development of a country and could
lead to covert or open forms of economic aggression.

89. Only if the international community can understand
co-operation in terms of the goals of progress we have
indicated and can eliminate from its machinery any
instrument of compulsion which vitiates it, will we be able
to move forward, developed and developing nations together 
in the search for better forms of coexistence that
will permit both groups to join in building a more just and
worthy life. These criteria for international co-operation
draw their inspiration from explicit Articles of the Charter
of the United Nations and of the revised Charter of the
Organization of American States.

90. In all international forums, Peru has strongly upheld
the cardinal importance of these principles and proclaimed
that only on the basis of respect for them will it be possible
to establish true, constructive and lasting co-operation. 

91. The community of nations must strive to achieve
international welfare. That calls for a greater interest and a
high level of responsibility on the part of the Governments
of the wealthier countries in order to improve the lot of less
fortunate peoples. The industrialized States must recognize
the fact that today poverty in any corner of the world is a
threat to their own way of life and that, consequently, their
economic and social responsibilities cannot end at their
national frontiers. 

92. The action of the great countries in regard to human
life cannot be limited solely to the formal maintenance of
peace and the protection or encouragement of limited
national interests—a concept that was stressed by President
Nixon the other day. Such an attitude is not in keeping
with the world today, which is becoming increasingly
interdependent as a result of the progress of science,
technology and communications. True security, true
guarantees of life, liberty and what is usually understood as
happiness all call for a far more responsible commitment to
the rest of the world: a commitment which means
co-operating with others to build new economic and social
institutions, new channels for a more just and equitable
distribution of wealth and to eradicate injustice, turning an
atmosphere of uncertainty into a climate of confidence and
stability.
 
93. I have left to the end of my statement the analysis of
my Government’s views on the most important world
problems that appear on the Assembly’s agenda. This
obviously is not because of any order of priority, but
because it was more appropriate to speak first of the
internal process taking place in my country and its obvious
consequences for foreign policy, so as to facilitate a better
understanding of what Peru believes should be done in the
matters I propose to discuss now. These matters come
under three main headings: peace and world security,
international co-operation, and human rights. 

94. It has been said that, in the long run, peace and and
security in the world will be feasible only when all peoples
understand that we are members of the same family — that
of the human race — and that we must act as such within an
order that does not admit of hegemonies or subjugations
and far less of injustice, but calls for wide and lasting 
co-operation in the solution of the problems of all, so that 
individual efforts will be harmonized, complemented and
multiplied in the pursuit of a common objective—the
solidarity of all men and the full realization of their 
aspirations to a worthy, secure and happy life.

95. We share those ideals and we are also convinced of the
need to strengthen the authority of the United Nations,
whose principles must be observed and whose resolutions
must be complied with, since this is the only possible
guarantee of world peace and security.

96. But the daily facts of the world in which we live show
how naive it would be to expect progress along that road as
long as States fail to co-operate effectively in uprooting the
very causes of international unrest, that is, the economic
and social conditions to which we have so often referred.
Unless these conditions are given preferential and adequate
attention, political and juridical measures alone will always
be insufficient and a makeshift.

97. At the same time, it is necessary to eliminate other
factors which darken the world picture and which are the 
result of present-day antagonisms. Of these, the most 
distressing are the conflicts that still afflict the peoples of
the Far East and Africa. Although these are not on the
agenda of the present session of the Assembly, they call for
special mention, because they are a stigma on mankind, and
the parties concerned must exhaust every possible means of
putting an end to the unjust and futile sacrifice of
thousands of human lives, which far outweigh in value the
interests involved.

98. The situation in the Middle East heads the list of
problems submitted for our consideration. In this, as in
other fields, compliance with United Nations resolutions is 
essential, as are also mutual respect among States, the
cessation of all hostilities, the search for a peaceful
settlement, the abandonment of all expansionist aims or
religious wars and the duty to adjust national will to the
imperatives of human rights, without which the just and
lasting peace we all desire cannot be obtained.

99. In the peaceful settlement of disputes, the experience
of the American nations offers unquestionably valuable
instances of the effectiveness of the regional agreements
provided for in the Charter of the United Nations. The
world has recently witnessed an example of how the 
American system, acting with the assurance and speed born
of the vitality of its own institutions and buttressed by the
moral elements inherent in the peaceful spirit of its peoples,
put an end to a sad conflict between two sister nations.

100. Together with the elimination of war as a means of
settling disputes, equal importance must be given to the
questions of general and complete disarmament, the suspension 
of nuclear tests, the elimination of chemical and
bacteriological weapons, and the allocation of the enormous sums 
still spent in those fields to other activities such
as the use of nuclear energy and outer space for peaceful
purposes, matters on which extensive reports have been
submitted to the Assembly for consideration.

101. The recent entry into force of the Treaty of
Tlatelolco on the denuclearization of Latin America is a
new proof given by our countries of their will to co-operate
in bringing peace to the world without renouncing their
legitimate and urgent aspirations regarding the use of
nuclear technology for the benefit of their economic and
scientific progress.

102. Other problems involving injustice and increasing
danger for States are those relating to their national unity.
These problems cannot be postponed indefinitely and
suitable procedures must be devised so that peoples which
are now divided may achieve their long-desired unification.

103. Finally, in this section on peace, I must refer to the
flagrant incongruity of the existence, in these days, of
peoples subjected to colonial régimes. Like all those
countries which waged a hard battle for their political
independence and whose concept of the world is based on
principles of Christian inspirations, Peru rejects any sort of
colonialism. It is high time for those Powers, to whose care
the administration of Non-Self-Governing Territories was
entrusted, to adapt their practice to the mandate from the
United Nations, and, respecting the just aspirations of those
peoples, their cultural identity and the principle of 
self-determination, to ensure their social and economic 
advancement and assist them effectively in learning to govern
themselves. Any other interpretation of their mandate is a
distortion of the obligation contracted with the world
organization, and puts at risk the objectives of peace and
security, which we are all concerned with preserving.

104. In the second part of this statement, when referring
to the bases of Peru’s foreign policy, I spoke of the
principles which my country believes should govern relations 
among States in regard to international co-operation.
In the light of the present world picture, the priority
purpose of this co-operation is, undoubtedly, to combat
under-development, and this has been clearly recognized at
meetings at various levels such as those of CECLA, ECLA,
IA-ECOSOC and UNIDO, which have all agreed on the need
to reshape the present system of economic relations
between the industrialized and the developing countries.

105. We must admit, however, that the results at the end
of the First United Nations Development Decade are very
meagre. We trust that the proposals on global strategy
formulated by the Preparatory Committee for the Second
United Nations Development Decade will receive the full
support of the more advanced nations, without whose
decision to co-operate these proposals will remain a dead
letter.

106. In the field of financial co-operation, we find that
the developing countries are obtaining external financing
under increasingly adverse conditions. This affects their
foreign currency reserves, which are needed to maintain an
adequate rate of importation of capital goods. An end
must, therefore, be put to the "spiral of indebtedness"
which militates against our economic growth and any
improvement in our levels of living.

107. it is ironic to note that, in the final analysis, the
so-called under-developed nations are acting as exporters of
capital to the regions that are more advanced and have a
greater accumulation of wealth, as a result of the servicing
of foreign debts and remittances abroad from foreign
investments.

108. We recognize the need for the participation of
foreign capital; we acknowledge its interest in obtaining
reasonable profits and we guarantee the stability of its
operations; but an analysis of the methods with which it
has been working convinces us of the need to search for
new arrangements compatible with local priorities, so that
such investments may contribute effectively to the mobilization 
of internal resources, to the generation of national
savings and to an improvement in the technological level of
our countries.

109. Such objectives are consistent with a realistic policy
of structural transformation such as that which is being
carried out by the Government of Peru, and which
supersedes and sets aside the purely economic concept that
growth is the first and fundamental step towards development.

110. Yet although the Peruvian revolution intends to
create the internal conditions for a self-sustaining development, 
we believe that, on account of the characteristics of
our country and its previous history, foreign trade must be
the primary source of the external financial resources we
require in order to achieve our objectives, A restructuring
and expansion of international trade is therefore essential,
since it is inadmissible that at present we should have to
export twice as much in order to acquire the same quantity
of goods as we were able to purchase in past decades.

111. We find, however, an indifference to this situation on
the part of the industrialized world, an indifference which
has now become traditional. One of the major obstacles to
an increase in the third world’s foreign trade is the obvious
lack of political will and action to comply with the terms of
international agreements.

112. I wish to avail myself of this opportunity in order to
stress the need for the industrialized countries to revise
their tariff and customs policies so as to eliminate the
discriminatory treatment suffered by our manufactures and
semi-manufactures, as well as the non-tariff obstacles which
hamper the marketing of our basic commodities. When we
also consider the policy of encouraging the uneconomic
production of items which could not otherwise compete
successfully with ours, we find evidence of a serious
distortion in international trade.

113. On the other hand, variations in the demand for
primary commodities leads to violent fluctuations in export
prices and a progressive deterioration in our terms of trade
and, consequently, in our import capacity.

114. We ask, therefore, among other things, for compliance with international agreements relating to price stability, for effective functioning of consultation machinery on the rational disposal of surpluses and strategic reserves, and for the implementation of a 
non-discriminatory and non-reciprocal system of general preferences.

115. Finally, we must point out that the gap between the
developed and developing nations is widening with the
technological advance being made in the industrialized
countries. Greater co-operation is, therefore, needed in the
creation and adaptation of technological processes that will
ensure the maximum utilization of the resources of the
developing countries. Unfortunately, the great technological 
innovations of the past decade have invariably been
aimed at economizing on labour. What we in the underdeveloped 
countries need are innovations which, while enabling us to 
save capital, also allow us to utilize our labour force to 
the fullest possible extent.

116. Among the programmes which my Government is
following with special interest I must single out the one
concerning the peaceful uses of the sea-bed and the ocean
floor and the subsoil thereof beyond the limits of national
jurisdiction. 

117. We believe that the United Nations, acting as it were
as a trustee of the destinies of mankind, should consider
this question with all due prudence and care. Its task is
doubly difficult, not only because it is a question of
establishing norms to govern an environment that is new to
international law, but also because such norms will affect
an extraordinary source of wealth, on which the developing
countries are pinning fully justified hopes.

118. In this field the United Nations has an unprecedented
opportunity of ensuring that the exploration and exploitation 
of the sea-bed and ocean floor are reserved exclusively
for peaceful purposes, thus preventing them from becoming
a subject of conflict among the great Powers, with
consequent danger to world peace.

119. In the face of disputes among States, man, who, both
individually and as a member of communities, has now
virtually become a subject of international law, is to an
increasing extent playing the part of a protagonist of
solutions and to a decreasing extent that of a victim. The
effort to base justice and the peace of nations on the
welfare of man constitutes one of the most urgent and
critical tasks of our time. 

120. When we consider that barely a century ago there
were laws permitting slavery, we realize how slow progress
has been towards recognizing the dignity of the human
being as such, despite the philosophical and religious
principles that had been proclaimed many centuries earlier.
Today no one any longer denies that human welfare
requires the conquest of freedom, not only in its political
sense but also in the sense of the liberation of man from his
harshest oppressors: poverty, disease and ignorance; and
that this welfare also requires the achievement of equality,
expressed by the same rights and obligations for all,
regardless of sex, race, religion or class.  

121. These rights are no longer merely the guarantees
granted to its citizens by the liberal State, vigilant of its
own order; they have acquired a new value: they are
essentials for the dignity of the human being. Rights
representing the protection of man against arbitrary power
have been succeeded by rights representing a claim to a 
genuinely human existence.

122. These principles have been proclaimed by the peoples
of the United Nations and by regional communities in 
declarations of human rights which, undoubtedly, constitute 
the finest and most complete ethical and juridical
achievements of our century. They have inspired the
constitutions of various countries, they have served as
guidance for numerous laws and have encouraged the hopes
of millions of human beings.

123. However, it must be admitted that the initial progress
that has been achieved has not yet been followed by full
practical implementation. Alongside United Nations initiatives 
in the field of human rights, there exist discriminatory 
practices such as apartheid, and racial and religious intolerance, 
which are repugnant to the conscience of the world. In addition to internal efforts to put an end to these erroneous practices, it appears necessary to strengthen the authority of the recommendations of our world Organization and the machinery for their implementation. 

124. Those of us who call ourselves civilized countries can
hardly watch with indifference the infringement of the 
rights of certain groups living in subjection to those who
wield power. But here again, the task is a complex one, for
good intentions, mere condemnations and theoretical
recommendations are not enough, unless they are accompanied, 
and in many cases preceded, by other forms of international 
co-operation to assist countries in solving their
problems which, in the ultimate analysis, are always those of 
their peoples. 

125. In many States, the recognition of the right to life,
which is the foundation of all other rights, does not go 
beyond a literary exercise, while infant mortality and
endemic diseases continue to decimate the population. The
same is true of recognition of the right to freedom from 
servitude, while poverty-stricken majorities still remain 
under the domination of privileged minorities that assume
political power to be one of their prerogatives; of the right
to property, while great masses cannot accumulate savings
since they are scarcely able to earn enough to live on, and
of the right to education and culture, while ignorance 
prevails and illiteracy rates are very high.

126. For these reasons, in the countries that are struggling
towards development, human rights will be every day
realities when the necessary environment of well-being has
been created so that men can achieve them and live with
them, and learn to defend them.

127. In concluding this review of the domestic and
external efforts being made by the Government of Peru to
ensure the prosperity of its people and contribute to the
establishment of a system of solidarity among all the
countries of the world, I must once again repeat that the
problem of development has ceased to be a particular
interest of national Governments and has become one of
the thorniest problems in international relations. It is
imperative, therefore, that the industrialized countries
should recognize their responsibility in the present situation
and assume the consequent obligations. For our part, we
are doing our utmost and making all the changes needed to
achieve development, convinced as we are that development
must essentially be the result of our own efforts. What
causes us concern, however, is to find ourselves confronted
by vacillating attitudes, if not by abstention or even
indifference, on the part of those more advanced than
we are.

128. Co-operation given to societies during a period of
transition to promote their economic and social development 
is not just charity; it is an indispensable mutual
guarantee for the achievement of political security and,
consequently, for the maintenance of international order.

129. What we envisage is not a way of life imposed upon
us, but rather a world in which men can live together in
dignity and justice, with freedom of thought and action,
and with respect for the sovereignty of each and every
country; a world in which every nation can freely develop
its own system in its own particular way. We believe that
these aims should inspire the efforts of this Organization
and that they provide more than sufficient reason for
carrying on the struggle to the point of sacrifice, if
necessary. Living as we do in a period which is neither
peace nor war, there must be firm determination, dedication 
and the will to work together, so that ultimately we
shall be nations united in the common task of ensuring the
welfare of all the people in the world.

===== Session 25 - 1970 =====
1.	  Mr. President, may I start my statement by congratulating your Excellency on your election to preside over this Assembly. This is a just tribute paid your great country, Norway, which has contributed so greatly to the undertakings of peace of our Organization and of understanding among peoples, and also, at the same time, an acknowledgment of your own merits as a jurist and diplomat very well versed in the problems of the United Nations and highly qualified successfully to direct the work and the discussions of the present session of the General Assembly.
2.	It is a great honor for me, for the second time, to stand at this great rostrum as a representative of the Revolutionary Government of the Armed Forces of Peru and to participate in the present general debate of the Assembly, which coincides with the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. This has been a period during which the Organization has been able to make obvious its position as a primary instrument for international peace and co-operation and for the encouragement of economic and social progress of all peoples. It is thus, following the lines drawn in the Charter of the United Nations and meet the fundamental interests of its component Members.
3.	As the Minister for External Affairs of a country which has just suffered the greatest earthquake of its history, on behalf of my people and my Government, I express from this rostrum our deep and sincere gratitude to all those peoples and governments which, in an admirable demonstration of solidarity, rushed to our support and are still helping us to overcome the results of that ghastly catastrophe. Such generous and effective co-operation must stand as an encouraging example of human solidarity.
4.	My expressions of appreciation must especially be addressed to Mrs. Angie Brooks-Randolph, President of the twenty-fourth session of the General Assembly, U Thant, Secretary-General of the United Nations, his personal representative, Mr. Raul Prebisch, and also Mr. Paul Hoffman, the administrator of the United Nations Development Program, for their wide and comprehensive co-operation, which led to the very valuable international contributions and technical and financial assistance we are still receiving.
5.	At this moment, too, Peru wishes to reiterate its thanks for the generous initiatives taken by the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Program, which the Economic and Social Council at its forty-ninth session has taken up and recommended to this General Assembly in its resolutions 1533 (XLIX) and 1546 (XLIX),
6.	The cruel tribulations suffered by Peru prove once again the need to create within the United Nations standing machinery which will be dynamic and effective and, provided with the necessary resources, can be immediately mobilized to assist those countries afflicted by grave natural disasters, thus avoiding the slowing-down of the process of development of the afflicted country.
7.	The catastrophe of last May hampered the immense efforts being made by Peru to find the road to welfare and progress. My Government feels that reconstruction and development must be considered inseparable parts of an over-all revolutionary process of transformation which cannot be limited merely to restoring previous conditions to the affected population. That would be to restore their backwardness and need. Rather, we should offer them a standard of living higher than they had before.
8.	Our people are determined to continue along the road of development that has been drawn for us and to make every sacrifice to achieve the goals we have set ourselves, for we understand fully that in the struggle against under-development and dependency there can be no truces and that from this struggle must emerge a new, just and united society.
9.	I believe that the present session of the Assembly is u propitious time for us at this center of world concerns to mention the progress that has been achieved in Peru through the revolutionary process.
10.	The Government's conduct in this period has been dictated by the urgent need to deepen the revolutionary process. In the clear-cut language of facts, based upon firm conviction and a careful and responsible analysis of our own realities, we have, in the course of the last twelve months, taken decisive steps which irreversibly show the radical transformation of the Peruvian society. In so doing we have only responded to the just aspirations of the great national majorities and the true interests of the country, because our obligation and commitment is and must be exclusively and whole-heartedly to the entire people of Peru. We want to put a radical end to the suffering and concern of our people by adopting effective solutions in keeping with the historic vocation that has been thwarted so many times.
11.	Taking up the doctrine of the Peruvian revolution expressed in the messages of the President of the Republic of Peru, General Juan Velasco Alvarado, I must say here that our insistence on independence has a very wide conceptual, cultural and ideological basis. We do not want to be, nor can we be, of those who repeat principles and outlines; we must be creators of our own way of considering our own reality, and our revolution must be a truly indigenous and independent movement with Peruvian solutions to Peruvian problems. And as we defend the inalienable right of Peru to decide upon its own future without ever allowing interference by foreign forces in our decisions as a sovereign State, so too we know, and will always know, how to respect the right of other peoples to assume the governments and systems they feel most appropriate or desirable for themselves.
12.	We have decided to find a road to development which will make the future Peruvian society a just and free environment in which the exploited and the forgotten of yesterday will at the same time enjoy a better standard of living and the benefits of culture, and in which economic welfare will allow men to achieve the highest moral values through spiritual development.
13.	This road is not blazed by the traditional formulas of capitalist or communist systems, for our ideal is a nationalistic and humanistic society that without alienating man will make him the conscious and free master-builder of his future.
14.	The construction of this just and free environment can only be achieved if the Peruvian revolution makes determined headway in the process it has drawn for itself of transforming the economic and social structures.
15.	It is for this reason that to the agrarian reform which is being carried out in an accelerated and orderly fashion we have now added the General Law of Industries, one of the most important measures adopted in the last twelve months. This law seeks and ensures a self-sustained and permanent development of a true Peruvian industry in order to guarantee the economic independence of the country through powerful tax, credit and technological incentives. At the same time it legislates for the participation of foreign capital and investments, assuring them adequate and just returns on the basis of the contribution made to the development of the country. This law, and another promulgated later, establishes the industrial community which is an original creation of the way of thinking of the Peruvian Revolution and will allow the progressive participation of workers not only in the utilities of industry itself, but also in their administration and ownership, thus fulfilling an effective means of social justice.
16.	Specific aspects of our own country call for State participation in certain activities and sectors that are basic and keys to the economy and development of Peru, and it is for this reason that the Revolutionary Government has reserved the foreign trade in fish-flour and oil and minerals, and also the refining of mineral products, in which, of course, private enterprise can also participate.
17.	However, social and economic transformations, which are sought through the reforms already undertaken and those to be undertaken, would be meaningless if their beneficiary, man, were not in turn the subject of a change that would meet our own needs also, that would meet the true situation of our society and the physical environment in which he moves, in order to make him fully aware of our specific situation as a developing country that will train him to defend and ensure continuation of the conquests achieved and that will prepare him morally and technically to confront the challenge that the construction of a new and different social order must also offer.
18.	This is the profound motivation which imbues the reform of our education. The achievement of its immediate objectives elimination of illiteracy, democratization at all levels, effective access for all to the scholastic, technical or university centers will gradually allow us to train our citizens into effectively responsible free men imbued with the conviction of their common destiny with that of other men.
19.	Thus the reform of education in Peru fully coincides with the objectives recommended by UNESCO for the International Education Year and also promotes ethical principles and the understanding of international peace.
20.	Concerning the battle that my country is waging in order to achieve development, I must refer once again to the question of the defense of the resources of the sea.
21.	Due utilization of the resources of the sea is a matter which touches us all, but most vitally the developing countries. This matter has been dealt with in a number of regional and world forums, where it has been reaffirmed without any doubt that States have a perfect right freely to dispose of their natural resources. This year, at the Montevideo and Lima Conferences on the Law of the Sea, the responsibilities and obligations which must govern relations among States were clearly defined; thus the signatories to their conclusions have laid a sound basis for the creation of just international co-operation, which must rest upon scientific, economic and social principles, and meet the imperative needs of peoples for subsistence.
22.	By the Declaration of Santiago of 1952,  Ecuador, Chile and Peru were the first countries to give a legal framework to their policy of defense of the resources of the sea by setting their maritime sovereignty or their exclusive jurisdictional rights up to a distance of 200 miles. After these three countries, the nine signatories of the Declaration of Montevideo of May of this year adopted a similar position.
23.	On the basis of the same reasons and for the same ends, a number of countries of the continent, meeting in Lima last August, declared the existence of common principles governing the law of the sea. At that historic meeting the Latin American States reaffirmed as common principles of the law of the sea, inter alia, the inherent right of the coastal States to explore, preserve and exploit the natural resources of the sea adjacent to their coasts and of the sea-bed and subsoil thereof, as well as those of their continental shelf and the subsoil thereof, and to establish the limits of their sovereignty or maritime jurisdiction in accordance with their geographical, geological and biological characteristics and the need for the sound utilization of the resources of the region.
24.	To those declarations of law and the proclamations of Latin American principles must now be added the resolutions adopted at the third summit conference of non-aligned nations which recently met in Lusaka. At that time sixty countries pledged themselves fully to exercise their right and fulfill their duties in order to achieve the welfare and development of their countries in ensuring the widest utilization of the existing natural resources in their territory and adjacent seas, and decided to co-ordinate their policies and measures for the utilization of their mineral and marine resources in the national interest and for the protection of the marine environment. This is patent proof of the progressive and reasoned stocktaking by the developing countries, which were kept by colonialism with their backs to the sea and deprived of the wealth which it holds, and which now understand that it is one of the main regions to which they must again turn their attention in order to extract the resources necessary to satisfy the pressing needs of their peoples. There is no doubt that the right to utilize those immense resources is strengthened by these adherences to the principles we defend whose general postulates are adaptable to the conditions and peculiarities of other latitudes and to ensure the legitimate protection and utilization of the economic heritage of other developing countries. It is for this reason that we understand and respect the positions of those countries whose jurisdictional limits over the sea are still different from our own. We consider that in questions of limits the sole satisfactory solution is the recognition of the multiplicity of regimes, if possible at the regional level, taking into account the characteristics of the respective nations or zones whose situations are similar.
25.	On this occasion I must state that my Government deplores and rejects the attitude designed to confound and divide States that are determined to defend these resources. I refer specifically to certain initiatives that have emerged to convene a new international conference on the law of the sea with an agenda that is one-sidedly partial and limited, intended to impinge on the inalienable rights of peoples that require the wealth of their adjacent seas in order to satisfy their vital needs.
26.	This session of the General Assembly has on its agenda a number of subjects dealing with the sea, and of these we should stress that concerning the possibility of holding a conference on the law of the sea, and that which refers to the sea-bed beyond national jurisdiction, without thereby overlooking the question of the pollution of the marine environment and related matters that have been examined by the Economic and Social Council. Those subjects could be considered either as fields fruitful for solidarity and co-operation, as we see it, or, as the opposite view would have it, as spheres of influence over which the great Powers might exercise policies of persuasion and dissuasion. This latter possibility is an evident danger that has become obvious in the last few months through the initiatives taken, which are being used in order to anticipate procedures set forth by the General Assembly and which seriously disturb and might even hinder the achievement of just solutions that would adequately meet the fundamental concern for welfare as the basis for peace, which is doubtless what is at stake.
27.	It is well known that the sea-bed beyond national jurisdiction is also a fountain-head of resources whose utilization is of interest to mankind in general.
28.	The international machinery to be created on the basis of a declaration of principles which is the primary task of the Sea-bed Committee if it is effectively to satisfy the general interest of mankind and not limit itself to a mere system of concessions to feed public or private enterprises of the highly industrialized countries must rest upon the basic concept that the sea-bed beyond the limits of national jurisdiction constitutes the common heritage of mankind.
29.	Naturally, when such machinery is established for the sea-bed beyond national jurisdiction, the juridical status of the superjacent waters must be respected, leaving no room whatsoever for the application of norms that are alien to either part of the law of the sea. As far as the precise limitation of the area is concerned, we must point out that this is a matter that can be defined only by taking into full account the geographical realities of the different countries once the scope of the international machinery has been agreed to.
30.	The United Nations, which was born after the last war, has for the last twenty-five years been contemplating the great Powers opposing one another, particularly on ideological questions. On the one hand, the development of nuclear weapons has dragged the world into a peace of terror which threatens the two super-Powers with annihilation; on the other hand, the age-old cultural preponderance in the west of the European continent, is moving the latter towards an effort to acquire the deterrent potential and advance the process of its own integration. It is no longer an illusion to believe that Europe, ideologically divided and, until a few years ago, almost unable to conciliate its views because of the deep differences between the systems established there, might today overcome obstacles and difficulties to the point where a conference on European security is today feasible. However, there is no State which considers that such a possibility could become real without the agreement of the two superPowers. Both have allowed this new orientation to take root because of the mutual concession of substantial interests on the international level. It would thus appear that the shaping of world power might change from a bipolar system to a multi-polar system.
31.	Such a development in international affairs might appear equitable to those States that believe they are entitled to create the new international structure; how-ever, one must analyze the ramifications of this policy which affects developing nations, not involved in its devising, and which, as far as the great Powers are concerned, are only important in their effect upon their own spheres of interest. The multi-polar world balance, which is gradually being created, basically rests upon armed peace and the respect for spheres of influence which are nothing but those regions in which the developing countries are located. It is thus that world power is distributed among the great Powers and that there is applied to the developing countries a policy of economic domination which is the most reprehensible form of pressure on countries that are economically weak. And yet this entire picture is defined as so-called "political realism" which is unceasingly proclaimed by the great Powers in their endeavors to persuade us all that that is the world political reality.
32.	At the same time, the United Nations is watching the growing emergence of the developing world. This new force has a different view of what international society should be, and quite justifiably condemns the entire contents of "political realism", since the latter illegitimately tries to create a world power in which decision-making in the great international problems would still be left solely in the hands of the great Powers.
33.	It is not difficult to conclude that world international policy today is the subject of and rests upon the rivalry between the great Powers and the developing world. While the great Powers try to impose peace based upon power politics, the developing world is endeavoring to create peace based upon the political, social, economic and juridical aspects of that solidarity dictated by international relations that exclude the dictates of power. Only in the latter case will we be able to speak of true equality among States, because the elements constituting this concept of united peace reject practices of dissuasion and persuasion which are inherent in power politics. Yet, despite the radical and profound differences between these conceptions, and in the interests of both, it is imperative to keep this dialog permanently open. But this can only be done by the adoption of positions that will create a new international network based on understanding, co-operation and mutual respect among States that will, in turn, contribute to the achievement of a true peace. Only within this framework advocated by the developing world can international security have a permanent meaning.
34.	This conception of what international security should be implies the participation of all States in the creation of an international order of a truly universal character. Therefore, the action of the United Nations must be to set its sights on that goal, which is the very reason for the existence of this Organization.
35.	On the other hand, the increasingly clear-cut analysis made by the Latin American countries of their own particular problems and of the general problems of the world gives us the conviction that we are called upon to play an ever increasingly significant role in the international community and to maintain the dialog to which I have referred, but along different lines from those of the past.
36.	The Latin-American consensus of Viña del Mar, which adjusted to its true dimension the dialog between Latin America and the United States, the Declaration of Buenos Aires, which formulated our relations with the European Economic Community, and the very intense analysis of our relations with groups of countries, without ideological distinctions, are a proof of the Latin American conviction and determination to strengthen on internal cohesive elements and of our capacity to assume united positions and our interest in creating or strengthening ties with other political entities in the world.
37.	At the recent summit conference of non-aligned nations held in Lusaka, in which I had the honor to participate as an observer, there was brought home to me the spirit of co-operation that animates the leaders of the countries which share that position and which, apart from giving dynamic assistance in the concert of nations, and which might well constitute the element of balance between the two great Powers that are at present confronting each other, is also potentially a force that must effectively contribute to transforming the "balance of terror", which is basically unstable, into a fruitful, humanistic balance where the necessary participation of the developing countries will prevent decisions that might jeopardize the common destiny of mankind from depending exclusively and as a privilege on the great Powers. In that case, these decisions will rest, as far as possible, upon universal formulation and acceptance.
38.	These observations on inter-state ties lead us to consider the case of Cuba, that sister republic whose presence in inter-American relations must be a matter of urgent consideration within the American regional framework,
39.	On the other hand, Peru shares the justifiable concern created on a universal level by the problem of the absence from this Organization of the People's Republic of China, a world Power consisting of hundreds of millions of inhabitants.
40.	My country notes sadly what little progress has been made by certain people along the road from colonialism to freedom, and the very insignificant achievements made in the struggle against different forms of discrimination.
41.	The end of the International Year for Human Rights has not, unfortunately, brought an end to racial, political, economic or religious discrimination. Nor do we see human communities subject to a colonial regime rising as free and independent peoples.
42.	Our ideological position, which is made manifest in our free and independent foreign policy, gives us the moral authority openly to reject that which our conscience reproves. This, once again, leads Peru to condemn the outrages against human rights and once more to reiterate the fact that the condemnations uttered against these aberrant practices will be meaningless unless accompanied by a' manifest political will to concert forms of co-operation in order, once and for all, to liquidate the forces of colonialism, apartheid and racial discrimination.
43.	Peru feels that among steps towards the establishment of universal peace, our Organization owes praise for the acceptance by an increasing number of States of treaties on the prohibition of nuclear tests, on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and on the de-nuclearization of Latin America. However, despite the fact that the United Nations has repeatedly condemned the carrying out of nuclear explosions and that Peru and other countries have repeatedly protested against them, French nuclear tests in the Pacific Ocean continue, and might create grave hazards for the populations and the marine resources of the coastal States. Peru wishes once again to protest and to insist that an end be put to these practices, which constitute an undeniable danger to mankind.
44.	Peru is following with grave concern the evolution of the crisis in the Middle East. It is for this reason that we welcomed with satisfaction the opening of the talks started in this building pursuant to Security Council resolution 242 (1967) of November 1967. My country shares the hopes of the international community that the day will quickly arrive when the peoples of that region will live together in harmony.
45.	Mine, which is a peace-loving country, is also deeply concerned at the continuation of hostilities in Viet-Nam, and trusts that the negotiations under way can, in the near future, put an end to that bloody conflict.
46.	Among the protests against the political, social or economic realities, we must include as one of particular gravity the terrorism and the hijacking of airplanes that threaten innocent persons with physical danger. In condemning those reprehensible acts, we must insist upon a search for specific means to avoid their repetition.
47.	All these grave problems which confront mankind today carry with them suspense and permanent risks in the critical situation through which the developing world of today is passing. The developing countries link their hopes to a true global strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade. But in the present stage of negotiations, while specific commitments on the part of the developing countries are clearly and definitively included in the document submitted to this Assembly by the Economic and Social Council, which places all possible emphasis upon the responsibility incumbent upon them, the same is not the case for the developed countries, whose commitments are drafted in an ambiguous or elusive way when dealing with precise targets and dates.
48.	And thus, in the light of the magnitude of the task to be undertaken and the negative results of the First Development Decade, the absolute need emerges for the strategy of the Second Development Decade to pass beyond the stage of watered down and half-way commitments and to concentrate on a firm and clear political commitment which will result from an effective and proven general will to co-operate and which will make it possible for the decade of the seventies to be, finally, the decade of achievements.
49.	The last session of the General Assembly decided that the commemoration of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of our international Organization should concentrate on three fundamental concepts of deep significance: peace, justice and progress. These three ideas, which in themselves constitute the traditional theme of the United Nations, are by their very essence an. imperative trilogy for the world to achieve the balance necessary to survive. These elements cannot be considered nor gauged separately, since they sum up human aspirations to inhabit a free world where peace will reign among nations and justice and progress among men.
50.	It is imperative that at this new stage that is now opening up in the life of the United Nations, our Organization reach its full maturity after twenty-five years of vicissitudes.
51.	With the experience gained, we trust that the United Nations will finally be able to find itself and turn into glorious reality the postulates and tenets of the Charter which are summed up in those great themes of peace, justice and progress.
52.	This is the solemn moment to strengthen the action of the United Nations and renew our pledge to strive so that our people will achieve freedom and well-being, if we truly want these concepts to be more than mere meaningless words.


===== Session 26 - 1971 =====
Mr. President, I am very pleased to be able now to pay tribute to the great statesman and man of law, Edvard Hambro, who so successfully and brilliantly presided over the last session, the commemorative session of our Assembly, and to you yourself, who are called upon to preside over us during the first year of what we all hope will be a new stage in the life of the United Nations. You bring to that task, aside from the nobility that your own great country represents, your own personal qualifications and the support of a very old and long-standing link with this Organization.
3.	I could not fail to voice my appreciation to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, U Thant, who in his 10 years of occupancy of his high post has given proof of his indefatigable ability to sacrifice himself and zealously watched over the constant endeavors of the Assembly to achieve its noble principles.
4.	I am very happy to say that Peru welcomes with satisfaction the admission to the United Nations of Bhutan, Bahrain and Qatar, convinced as we are that they will effectively contribute to the collaboration and solidarity which must exist among Member States. 
5., We return to this noble Assembly after the solemn celebrations which last year marked the twenty-fifth anniversary of the United Nations. So, today is a new and propitious occasion to renew our study of the international situation, whose major features we have to confront and whose problems we have to try to solve from this political and legal standpoint which we all share and in which the words and views of great and small must carry the true weight which our responsibility requires and must enjoy the respect which we all owe to the voices of sovereign States.
6.	It is obvious that our point of departure must be the realization that we must make every effort fully to understand the profound meaning of this period of upheaval and transition in which we are called upon to live. We must be fully aware that we live during a new period in the history of man, a period in which yesterday's truths are challenged, a period in which it is imperative that we define new problems and ask new questions of a changing reality which by its very nature forces us to find new approaches.
7.	The old social and economic systems are obviously showing signs of crisis and obsolescence. With them the political and social definitions which shaped the fundamental concepts of earlier generations show identical symptoms. Basically speaking, the qualitative continuity of contemporary history has been shattered. That is the price which inevitably must be paid going from one period of history to another. At a moment like this the traditional truths that ruled the thinking world and that guided man's understanding of matters have to be reviewed.
8.	In this a new historic period whose emergence we are witnessing, only a new awareness, only a new approach, only a new way of thought, only a new political and social way of acting, can possibly promise that we shall be able victoriously to face the challenge of a whole gamut of undefined problems, before which the thinking methods of the past could not, in themselves, point to any appropriate course or to any possible solution.
9.	The sense of profound unity of the human societies of today is nothing but a beautiful pipe-dream or, in the best of cases, an as yet unachievable aspiration. In the meantime the world is hastily restructuring itself so as to identify, as clearly as possible, which interests and which common problems can converge beyond the fields of polarization which until a short while ago characterized the political and social reality of today. Perhaps we are experiencing a type of redistribution of interests within that bipolarity which was the feature of the last few decades. Day by day we are seeing a planet, shared at one and the same time by societies, that concentrate an immense military and economic power based on the staggering development of technology and science which knows no frontiers, emerging from the context of different political and social systems which, therefore, are ruled by disparate and sometimes antagonistic or conflicting ideological formulations and, on the other hand, a vast universe of peoples that are today endeavoring to shatter the multiform domination under which they have always lived. These peoples that were dominated until a few years ago, these peoples that now
A/PV.1947
strive for true independence, these peoples that today, with militant determination, fight against any sign of imperialism, are the under-developed peoples of the third world. Their struggle for politic and economic freedom is basically a struggle to regain their capacity and their right to choose their own role and decide their own fate. This means that their political undertakings also include a claim to self-determination to be exercised in many ways and which, therefore, is to strengthen the profound national autonomy, at the same time, to encompass all fields of political, ideological and cultural growth. In other words, the freedom of the peoples of the third world can only be achieved when they are able to free themselves not only from the economic and political control of others, but also from the cultural and ideological control of the great centers of power which have emerged in a different historical and social framework.
10.	At this critical hour in human experience the considerable contribution of the people of the third world lies in a process of full autonomy that leads us to understand that true political autonomy can exist only on the strength of effective conceptual autonomy. This is the basic task of the third world today, the identification of the acceptable direction that we must follow, starting from our own indigenous forms of political understanding. And this is I believe the course chosen. If 50, then we shall better serve the cause of ensuring our own identity and independence and, at the same time, the vocation for peace and progress which inspired the laying of the foundation of the United Nations.
11.	This vast process, which in itself constitutes one of the great revolutionary conditions of our day, is beginning to take shape, both in the domestic activities of the countries of the third world and at the international level, by creating a common image.
12.	Peru, like most of the Latin American continent, is living through a period of intense transformation and, therefore, understands its participation in the third world in these terms and is thereby promoting its own growth towards unity. For this reason, with hope and happiness, we shall play host in our own capital to the forthcoming Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 77 which, for the second time since its meeting in Algeria, will attempt, through the terms of its own dialog with the great Powers, to define the different problems of trade and development and will also try to define the dimensions of its own autonomy and at the same time, to try to find the single united voice of a multiform effort to be expressed with joint responsibility and conviction.
13.	It is therefore a memorable occasion for Latin America that one of the countries of our region should be host to such an important meeting, and I have the great honor to repeat here our invitation which I had the pleasure of extending to you, Mr. President, on behalf of the Government of Peru. This meeting will be a mUestone in the converging road which began many years ago in different parts of the world and which Afro-Asians and Latin Americans have traveled. This search for a national integration of a plurality of human, social and political experiences—I would even describe them as historic constitutes one of the most extraordinary efforts which the young and needy peoples have carried out, and it must stand as a fruitful example of how the common nature of our interests and values constitutes a viable point of departure towards unifying our international action by taking a single stand and a single expression.
14.	Peru, consistent with lengthy international conduct in the service of unity and conciliation, is ready to play that role again dynamically at the Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 77. Deeply convinced as we are that that role is the most constructive, we shall as the host country endeavor to withstand any temptation to fall into hasty confrontations. But by this we do not by any means intend to weaken our firm determination to maintain our points of view and the interests we share with the third world.
15.	In so thinking, my country believes that we are being consistent with a general movement which we believe is appearing in the international community. For decades the international community has known neither true peace nor security, and in many cases progress seems to have turned its back on justice. And yet, recent international events appear to presage a progressive dissipation of some of the vestiges of the Second World War as well as some remnants of the cold war, such as the military alliances that weigh so heavily on the world. Among the most outstanding events, I have in mind the new policy which the United States Government seems to have adopted regarding the People's Republic of China and the consequent detente which this might well bring about in the Asian region. We note the same promise in the Quadripartite Agreement on Berlin, signed at Berlin on 3 September 1971, in the advisory opinion handed down by the International Court of Justice on Namibia,  and finally, in the first direct contacts between the two Koreas.
16.	We all hope that these signs will create an atmosphere conducive, within the framework of the United Nations -which is the only universal frame work-to a true and united security which will free our Organization as such for full action and will make the peaceful settlement of disputes, general and complete disarmament, effective respect for and defense of human rights, the elimination of colonialism and racial discrimination and rapid economic and social development through international co-operation a true reality and the goal of our Organization.
17.	My Government considers that one way of achieving such ends is for those States that, because of national or bloc antagonisms, have been isolated from one another to maintain normal political and economic ties in compliance with the principles of the Charter and within the framework of the coexistence of different economic and social systems, as recommended by the Declaration of Principles of International Law Governing Friendly Relations and Co-operation Among States, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, which was adopted unanimously at the twenty-fifth session of the General Assembly [resolution 2625 (XXV)].
18.	The efforts of States to establish those ties over and above their ideological differences would, nevertheless, be of little value if we were not able to ensure that all states became Members of this Organization, the latter thus achieving the universality that is indispensable if the United Nations is to be an effective instrument for international peace and security and a framework for economic, social, cultural and humanitarian co-operation among all States.
19.	In fulfillment of what I consider a duty, Peru, which in 1969 extended its political and economic ties to the socialist countries of Europe, has decided, in accordance with what I stated in this same hall last year [1842nd meeting] concerning the need for the active presence of the People's Republic of China in the United Nations, to formalize its relations with that country and, accordingly, firmly to advocate its representation in the world Organization.
20.	Following the same line of reasoning, my Government views with ever-increasing concern the prolonged isolation of Cuba from the countries of America. We believe that in the present circumstances the States of this region must agree to promote, within the Organization of American States, a change in this situation, or at any rate, that the regional organization grant States which wish to do so, complete freedom to resume relationships with the Republic of Cuba at whatever level they deem appropriate. If that course is not chosen, it becomes obvious that those States which consider the establishment of relations as a road to coexistence which will contribute to eliminating tensions, will separately adopt sovereign decisions that they regard as more in keeping with the interests of the international community.
21.	The question of measures for the strengthening of international security, as we see it, should not only be a subject for analysis and debate, but should concentrate mainly on the search for solutions to international conflicts. In this connexion, we consider that we should more precisely state and bring into play some of the functions and powers that the General Assembly possesses, so that that body, aside from strengthening its co-operation with the Security Council, will be able to keep under constant review the question of international security and measures to strengthen it,
22.	For this reason, it becomes more imperative every day for the war in IndoChina to end, and we therefore feel that an appeal from the United Nations for an intensification of the negotiations in Paris, which are to lead to an end to military activities in Viet-Nam, would be widely valued.
23.	Elsewhere, the military and political situation in the Middle East has, unfortunately, not progressed toward effective negotiation for the restoration of peace and security in that region. Resolution 242(1967) of the Security Council which constitutes the framework for such negotiation, has not been implemented. Nor have the indefatigable efforts of Special Representative of the Secretary-General been successful; nor have any steps forward been made beyond the cease-fire in the negotiations undertaken by the United States with the full knowledge of this Organization. We trust that none of the super-Powers wishes a new conflict in the Middle East, and that the parties themselves have no desire' to maintain a permanent state of domestic and international tension that will delay the attainment of peace and general well-being for their peoples. For these reasons, we cherish the hope that urgent formulas can be arrived at that will open the way to a permanent solution under the auspices of the United Nations,
24.	If international security is closely bound to development and world disarmament, it is likewise inseparably linked with nuclear disarmament. To achieve nuclear disarmament would be one of the key steps for the present United Nations Disarmament Decade.
25.	The idea of abolishing nuclear weapons has two fundamental aspects: one is qualitative, that is to stop advances in l dear weapons by a total and comprehensive test ban; and the other is quantitative, that is to put an end to their production and destroy the stockpiles and means of delivery of nuclear weapons.
26.	Thus far, only partial qualitative measures have been agreed upon, in as much as the partial test-ban Treaty, aside from permitting underground tests, has not been adhered to by all the nuclear Powers; and the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons [resolution 2373 (XXII), annex] crystallizes the nuclear status quo, with the atomic Powers having given no guarantees that they will refrain from the use of these weapons against third States and having given no commitment to move toward nuclear disarmament. The recent Treaty which seeks to avoid an atomic arms race on the sea-bed  is not a disarmament measure, nor is it a measure to limit armaments, for what it prohibits is the emplacement of nuclear weapons and installations in an area where they do not exist at present.
27.	Although the United Nations has recognized the urgent necessity to end nuclear and thermo-nuclear weapon tests and urged States to suspend them; although the threat that such tests pose to the human environment exists, and finally, although an appeal has been made to world public opinion there has been no announcement of a final end to the atomic explosions in the atmosphere that are being carried out in the Pacific region by France.
28.	As far as Peru is concerned, the very fact that an atoll in the Pacific Ocean was chosen-so distant from the metropolitan territory of France gives rise to doubts concerning the alleged security surrounding such tests. It has been amply proved that such explosions do cause an increase in radio-activity that not only affects the areas adjacent to Mururoa, but that also contaminates the atmosphere and the waters of the Pacific. What is more, a State need only carry out contaminating explosions -at a distance, even if within its own territorial jurisdiction, to wreak destruction on the living and active environment which is subject to the juridical protection of international law, namely, the population, either regarded as a whole, or as individuals, whom our commitments oblige us to respect. These facts make it imperative for the General Assembly to reconsider the grave consequences deriving from nuclear* weapon tests and to adopt a decision, with all the urgency required by the case, to put in end to their recurrence and place the responsibilities where they should lie,
29,	The State carrying out these explosions acknowledges the increase in radio-activity, but merely tries to. reduce its effects, stating euphemistically that the radio-activity does not reach the maximum permissible level. Obviously, if the slightest risk exists the tests should cease and, since no one can prove to us that there is no risk whatsoever, the explosions must be discontinued once and for all.
30,	At its fourteenth regular session, the General Assembly appealed to France to refrain from carrying out tests in the Sahara [resolution 1319 {XIV}]. Later, from the seventeenth to the twenty-fifth sessions, the General Assembly has repeatedly urged an end to nuclear tests, despite which these tests continue. This Assembly is obviously aware that these explosions constitute a serious violation of the elementary norms of human coexistence and must, therefore, call for the complete cessation of these and other nuclear experiments, as a logical consequence of the scientific information in its possession and of the legal ramifications of this situation. In so acting the United Nations would not only be living up to its own principles, but would also be furthering the efforts being made by it to preserve the environment, tangible proof of which lies in the Conference on the Human Environment, to be held at Stockholm in 1972.
31,	Peru is ready to make all necessary efforts to convince world and French public opinion that there is an urgent need, once and for all to put an end lo these experiments, which are not only a direct threat to humanity, but also an indirect one by contaminating vegetation and waters. This matter, which Peru feels very closely because of what the sea means to my country as a source of wealth and progress, has led us to co-sponsor, with other States an initiative that the United Nations Committee on the SeaBed appeal to France to discontinue these nuclear-weapons tests [A/8421, annex V, sect 1],
32,	In these days when the problems of the sea are evolving so rapidly it is even more incongruous that this type of severely criticized test should endanger resources which are a necessary source of progress for many countries. This is so obvious that the very ideas of the law of the sea are evolving remarkably, so that the immense resources from the sea will b^ used primarily and significantly to assist those countries on whose coasts they be. So much so that, in the course of the year since the twenty-fifth session of the General Assembly, important statements have been made supporting the view advocated by the countries of Latin America that their maritime sovereignty should extend to the 200-mile limit.
33,	Recently, at official meetings between authorities of the Governments of the People's Republic of China, Yugoslavia and Spain, we received support for the Latin American position through communiques proclaiming the unalienable rights of the coastal State over the sea adjacent to its coasts and the resources therein contained, as we had advocated. These statements have given universal scope and also offer encouraging support to the less developed countries, which must be borne in mind in the preparations for the forthcoming conference on the law of the sea to be held in 1973 .
34.	Apart from these manifestations we have also had the satisfaction of noting that in the Committee preparing for the Conference* an increasing number of countries of Latin America, Asia and Africa have spoken out in favor of 200 miles as the most reasonable and adequate limit for national jurisdiction and the international zone to be established. Thus, in an irreversible process the views originally advocated by the countries of the South Pacific are gaining ground as a bulwark against the predatory practices of the fleets of certain nations and have gradually become an organic doctrine based on legal, political, economic, biological and geographical factors and on principles that purport to embody the application of social justice to the international law of the sea.
35.	At other meetings we have stated that, consistent with that new conception, the use and exploitation of the seas must conform to an order of priorities, highest among which will be service to man as such, Consequently, if there is any conflict between the rules designed to further the military purposes of certain Powers and those intended to guarantee the development rights of other countries, the latter rules must prevail, Thus too, if it is necessary to choose between the first and the rules intended to promote the survival and the welfare of peoples, the latter must again prevail over others. The idea is that the new law of the sea must not serve to ensure the hegemony of a small number of nations, but that it must become an instrument for peace, harmony and, over all, equity, that will allow the developing countries to come closer to the progress achieved by the more advanced nations and to improve the living conditions of those that are farthest away or farthest behind in their claims and rights to a better life.
36.	The delegation of Peru has participated in the preparation of two documents submitted for consideration to that Committee. One is a draft list of subjects [see A/8421, annex I, sect. 14] to be studied by the conference, to ensure that its terms of reference are wide and not limited to two or three isolated subjects of concern to a few maritime Powers. The other is a working paper on a draft regime for the sea-bed [ibid., sect. 8] which would ensure to the international community, through an authority endowed with full powers, direct and active participation in the utilization of the sea-bed beyond their national jurisdiction. Thus Peru looks forward to the conference on the law of the sea with optimism, convinced that it will be hospitable to and aware of the rights of States to defend their elementary interests.
37.	Furthermore, this will better serve the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade approved on the occasion of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Organization [resolution 2626 (XXV)] which is the first international instrument that considers economic and social development as a world phenomenon, dependent equally on the domestic efforts of the developing countries, the international situation resulting from it and the co-operation received from the developed countries
38.	Coinciding with this first year of the Second Development Decade, Peru has achieved and surpassed many of the targets and goals set by the International Development Strategy, such as that for the national economic growth rate; and yet we consider that our greatest contribution to this joint undertaking of the international community lies in the social transformation that we achieved in Peru through the domestic effort required as a developing country.
39.	In the specific case of Peru we have always been an underdeveloped society of dependent capitalism . Our basic problems were generated within that system and, therefore, could not be solved by maintaining it. From this basic standpoint, we decided upon a participating society in which the power of decision should be with the men and women who constitute the bases of our institutions. A society no longer governed by the individualism of the capitalist system nor by the hypertrophy of an all- controlling State, one whose acts are a reissue of the powers that alienated our traditional society which was already dehumanized and unjust.
40.	"Social democracy of full participation" is what President Velasco Alvarado called the target of the new united and self-generating society towards which the Peruvian revolution is directing its steps. We see our revolution as a process whose development will spread over an entire and historic period in the life of our country. But the achievements we have thus far chalked up already foretell the nature of our new society: an agrarian reform that returns the land to those that till it, a reform of enterprise that gives the workers access to profits, to management and even to ownership of the means of production; a new policy in the utilization of our resources, which restores to Peruvian society its primary right to be the first to benefit from their exploitation; an educational reform that redefines the entire approach to education within a society that seeks new forms of social behavior; and a new policy of popular participation, whose aim is to make it possible for every man and woman of my people to be prepared to exercise his and her right truly to choose his own destiny in all fields of social life and at all levels of the exercise of power.
41.	Peru has just celebrated 150 years of independent existence. Although our independence was a historic triumph against colonial domination, it did not bring with it the total liberation of our people, which still remained subject to the economic power of a ruling class that inherited many of the economic and social privilege? of the colony. At the same time, my country was becoming economically dependent on foreign Powers which followed the one-time mother country in Latin America.
42.	That is why the present revolution, which carries within it the seeds of a second and total independence, is endeavoring to achieve a new society qualitatively different from that which emerged from the first independence, without yielding to any external political and economic doctrine which might make us ideologically dependent and isolate us from the national reality and interest. Recently the President of Peru, confirming the well-proved conceptual autonomy of the Peruvian revolution, stated that his stand can be defined as being in keeping with the socialist, humanist, Christian libertarian tradition.
43.	Any ideological, political, social and economic effort, inherent in a revolutionary process such as Peru is carrying out to transform its structures, is also in many cases common although to a different extent and perhaps with different approaches to many countries of Latin America and the third world in general, for they, as well as we, are seeking to create the conditions necessary to achieve the status of a modern and developed State, However, these endeavors are frequently threatened from the outside, especially by the present world economic situation and because as yet the co-operation required for development is far from taking the favorable form that the immense efforts made by the developing countries calls for.
44.	The trade and financial deficit of the developing countries, according to a recent study by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development would, if the situation does not improve, amount in 1975 to a figure of between $17,000 million and $26,000 million, half or more of which corresponds to profits on foreign investments and services flowing out of these countries and the other part to the trade deficit. If we add to +his the fact that the flow of capital as assistance to developing countries still does not even enjoy a rate of growth of 1 per cent of the gross national product of the developed countries, which in the last few years amounted to $13,000 million, we can well understand that the countries of the third world are gradually becoming areas which export capital towards the industrialized centers.
45.	Foreign conditions for development are not only unfavorable due to these structural causes, in turn due to an archaic international division of labor which was created at the time of colonialism or of economic penetration, but because there are trends today to apply coercive measures to the developing countries. In the fulfillment of the purposes of the Strategy and the exercise of their sovereign rights these developing countries have legally expropriated foreign property in order to transform their structures and mobilize their domestic resources. Peru, in the exercise of its own sovereignty, has decided to expropriate the large land parcels existing in Peru, and to do so in obedience to certain legal criteria, and our right to do so cannot be challenged by any State. We consider that any measure, pressure or sanction of such a nature would be a manifest intervention and at the same time economic aggression which would pose a threat to international peace and security.
46.	To these factors which so gravely. threaten the countries of the third world, has now been added the factor derived from the international monetary crisis created by the decision of the United States to suspend the gold convertibility of the dollar and to impose a 10 per cent surcharge on imports.
47.	These measures have led some industrialized nations to float their own currencies and will have a bearing on international trade, particularly on the competitiveness of exports from the developing countries to the American market. On the other hand, the payment of the foreign debt of the developing countries will also be affected by the revaluation of other currencies.
48.	If this crisis were to lead again to a new monetary readjustment privately discussed and decided upon by the exclusive circle of the great economic and monetary Powers to the exclusion of all others, an international decision of a most unjust nature will have been taken, since it will have been adopted without the participation of two thirds of mankind and thus a qualitative interpretation will presumably have been given to the communities of the northern hemisphere without reasonably and sufficiently considering the quantitative factor of the third world. Surely the latter possesses singular conditions due to its very human existence and therefore it not only deserves respect but also has the right to seek and claim active participation in decisions that will have a significant effect on its own future.
49.	This, while being both political and economic is also a moral fact, and it led the delegation of Peru which I recently headed in Geneva, to speak at the Preparatory Committee, for the Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 77 in Lima of the need for the third world to seek immediate guarantees that it will be heard on an equal footing during the drafting of decisions which in the near future are to solve the question of a new monetary policy. This has led us to redefine our views, namely, that, with the technical advice of a committee of experts, the third world should formulate at the Lima Meeting a draft resolution which, with the unanimous support of all States members of this movement, will be presented to this General Assembly and will propose the holding of a world monetary conference. We are of the opinion that this is the only reasonable and equitable procedure whereby jointly to elaborate a new monetary policy that will be valid for all and that will also guarantee not only standard and constant prosperity for some, but will guarantee for all of us fundamental conditions of progress which we cannot waive.
50.	Unilateral measures imposed by the United States to rectify its own imbalance in the balance of payments will be designed first of all to solve that chronic problem of its own balance of payments but, when all is said and done, they are designed to stabilize the economic relations of the developed world. It is obvious that neither these unilateral measures nor the present crisis purportedly to be solved by them were created by the developing countries and yet it will be the developing countries that will suffer most in the lengthy process that has just been set under way,
51.	Therefore, the developing countries cannot continue to be the victims of policies in whose formulation they have not participated; nor can they accept the role of mute spectators of agreements among an oligarchy of economic powers. Our countries, that attach such importance to the foreign sector, cannot be absent from the creation of a new international monetary system. Whatever measures may be adopted in the future by the industrialized nations must be only provisional and, even as such, we insist that before they are adopted, the representative voice of the third world must be heard. But we are all aware that this crisis is neither provisional nor limited in the sense that its outer limits touch only a group of countries. The crisis will be permanent and its effect will be worldwide and therefore solutions to it must also be found on a world-wide basis and with the participation of all States on an equal footing.
52.	Twenty-five years after the Charter of San Francisco was signed we might perhaps note that the dynamic process of international relations seems now to be entering a phase which is characterized by efforts to achieve a more stable and realistic basis for international coexistence through greater discipline in the exercise of power and the rapprochement of the great Powers.
53.	There are tangible signs that encourage us to hGpe that a careful process of readjustment of international relations might well be leading us into a stage when peace will ultimately be the true sign of co-operation among nations. But it is by the same token evident that these important readjustments that emerge from agreements, mainly among powerful countries, must be supplemented, both in scope and in intensity, by the comprehensive consideration of the problems of development because it is almost trite to say that it is in the vast frustrated and disquiet region of the third world that the great Powers will ultimately define the new dimensions of peace among nations.
54.	Peru is firmly convinced that the third world is doing everything in its power to solve, from the inside, the problems of its own development and to show itself unified and not incoherently broken up at the mercy of any pressure. By co-ordinating the will of all its component States, by unifying interests and by drafting common lines of action, the third world is endeavoring, once and for all, to be an effective and valid spokesman, able to meet with the great Powers and having at its disposal a reasonable capacity for conciliation, as well as the necessary power so that its presence in the field of world decisions and the defense of its own interests will be one possessing a potential for negotiation, that is, with the necessary strength and power to hear and to be heard.
55.	So this confrontation between an emerging world seeking progress and a world which is endeavoring to solve the great contradictions that have been created by history, ideology and wars must ultimately, in the next few years, produce constructive dialog, free from exploitation, free from deceit, which will effectively lead to the creation and establishment of permanent terms on which the true peace of the future can rest, a peace whose protagonists will, on the one hand, be the great industrial Powers, and on the other, the third world, the present world of poverty, but the present world of hope.


===== Session 27 - 1972 =====
It is an honor for me to come to this rostrum at the United Nations and to speak in this forum where we meet every year to resume the threads of the great international dialog and to expound the basic positions of countries on the problems affecting relations among States within the framework of this Organization.
134.	May I at the outset convey to you, Mr. President, the warmest congratulations of my Government, and my own personal congratulations, on your well-earned election. In choosing you the General Assembly has done nothing other than pay a tribute to your noble country and to the years that you have devoted to the cause of peace and to the Organization itself in the many and delicate responsibilities that your Government has entrusted to you.
135.	I can not fail to pay a tribute to Mr. Adam Malik, whom the Peruvian Government had the honor to receive as a guest during the Second Ministerial Meeting of the Group of 77 developing countries in Lima. His ability and tact ensured the harmonious development of the General Assembly's debates at its last session.
136.	May I also sincerely congratulate Mr. Kurt Waldheim on his designation to his highly sensitive post. The new Secretary-General of the Organization is a personality whom we know well from his earlier diplomatic activities in his country's service, in which he showed outstanding ability and a special vocation for the ideals of peace. This gives us assurance that his leadership of the Secretariat will be guided by the same principles and qualities.
137.	The Government of Peru wishes to pay a tribute of profound respect to former Secretary-General U Thant, who for 10 years unselfishly gave himself to the tasks of building a world at peace. To achieve such a noble goal, U Thant bent his most serious efforts and earned the appreciation of the international community.
138.	We are witnessing a qualitative change in contemporary history: the classic economic and social systems and the political and philosophic tenets on which they rested are being revised. A new revolutionary stage in the history of mankind is emerging, whose basic trend is the search for new approaches which will make possible the achievement of peace and security in justice, both domestically kid in international relations.
139.	From the very outset of its task of transformation, the Revolutionary Government of the Armed Forces of my country realized that it would be impossible to succeed unless that task was understood as a shattering of internal domination and external dependence, key contributing factors to under-development. A real transformation of the social and economic structures that would alter the relations of political power in our society so as to create a democratic, humanistic and just community was not feasible unless our efforts were directed simultaneously abroad, whence, to a large extent, originated the major events that took place within our country.
140.	During the four years it has been in power a period completed just a few days ago, on 3 October the Revolutionary Government has been laying the ideological and political foundations on which it is building the new Peruvian society. These foundations were clearly defined by the President of the Republic, General Juan Velasco Alvarado, when in July of this year he stated:
"The revolution aims to create a pluralist economy, based on three fields of activity: a sizable State sector, a private sector of reformed enterprises enjoying all the guarantees of stability and respect which it requires, and a social property sector to whose support the State will give priority-all three aimed at the creation of a social democracy of full participation for all."
141.	The economic pluralism to which I have just referred will permit real and progressive participation by citizens at all levels in the decisions which affect their destiny. Policy, understood in its wide sense as action on the social whole, will be exercised on a community basis in the daily activities of the citizens, who in taking decisions on their enterprises, their institutions or their trade unions will be deciding on and guiding the fabric of their society at their own particular levels.
142.	There can be no true revolution without a transformation in man. Structural change means, basically, a change in mentality within the social and economic process. That is why new guide-lines were necessary in the field of education. The new Education Act sets up a new system in this decisive field and will progressively lead to a better and more adequate adaptation of our people to their environment. If we want true culture and not a transplanted culture, we must teach man to know and to recognize himself within the specific confines of the environment in which he is destined to live. His world must be created and organized around the everyday experiences of his own life and from this fruitful interrelation there must emerge a new culture that will place him, and allow him to know how to fit himself into his rightful place, individually and socially. We can be sure that the Peruvian who emerges from this process will achieve a worthy and independent society, humanistic and free, qualitatively different from the one that has existed until now.
143.	The transcendental events that spelled the beginning of our revolutionary process and that are known to this Organization were followed by the clear-cut definition of the principles and acts that Peru considers would constitute a foreign policy in keeping with the new reality which is felt in all our sovereign undertakings and which is consistent and consonant with our domestic policy.
144.	Development was not possible without breaking the circle of dependency. That is a collective task, one that calls for full awareness of self and faith in our destiny as a community that is emerging in the form of healthy nationalism, which is the most important factor in our social identity and in our integration as a country.
145.	Nationalism and independence are therefore the pillars of our foreign policy nationalism as the recognition of ourselves; independence that allows us the freedom of decision necessary to achieve our destiny.
146.	Thus the principles of universality in our foreign relations and the respect for ideological plurality are the ground rules that govern our relations with regard to the changing international scene. We have acted consistently and initiated dialogs with all countries of the world, establishing diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China, Albania and New Zealand, as well as extending recognition to Bangladesh.
147.	The world of the cold war, built around two hegemonic centers of power from whose unlimited strength it was almost impossible to escape, has now become a multi centered structure of varied balance in which alliances are not total or antagonisms final and in which the search for satisfaction of the interests of the smaller countries is feasible given the wider margin of play. The awakening of the third world is, in this process, one of the most significant events of our times. The full and honest incorporation of Latin America in the process of awakening is an especially enlightening development.
148.	In Latin America we recognize the existence of individual and differing ways that do not gainsay the community of interests of the continent, which is embarked on a course towards economic independence. We share similar problems of under-development, culture and our undeniably common origin. In this interaction within the structural unit of which the Latin American peoples consist, there must be recognized variables between agreement and disagreement, and between greater and lesser relationships, as occur in the life of human communities. Yet it would be difficult for us to understand our relations in terms of hegemonies, of positions of predominance that might, in themselves, contradict the traditional fraternal relations that we have maintained even when differences have appeared.
149.	The common economic and political experience in foreign affairs has given Latin America a structural character that goes beyond the mere convergence of culture and mentality. It now possesses its own genuine history, formed within its own tangible circumstances, forged in the defense of common interests in the face of external pressures that affected all equally-a history that has been woven around shared interests, but also let us say so frankly around shared frustrations. This concept of Latin American existence has already begun to foreshadow the outline of the whole, which knows itself to be varied and sees itself as different within the international concert. Yet this very concept endows it with an awareness of a self that has emerged individually from among its components as a sort of Latin American nationalism that, ultimately, will carry us to the point where our histories will converge in a form of communitary integration.
150.	At present, the relaxation of tension is a process that touches every sector of the globe and, within it, we have constantly claimed a relocation of Latin America within the new context which, precisely because of its flexibility, may well be favorable.
151.	It was this conviction that led us to submit our request of April last to the Organization of American States. In that request we contended that change had also made itself felt in America, and that therefore there was no justification for the isolation from the system of one of our sister Republics.
152.	To uphold in 1972 the views that in 1964 led to the adoption of measures against the Republic of Cuba is to deny the advance of history, the evolution of ideas, and the qualitative changes that occur in the lives of peoples.
153.	In July of this year Peru had the great satisfaction of renewing diplomatic relations with the Republic of Cuba, firmly convinced as it is that fraternity lies not in words but in deeds.
154.	From its very inception, the Revolutionary Government of my country has encouraged integration efforts in Latin America, aware that a truly liberating economic process cannot be completed without the integration of vast geo-economic areas which will allow the use of scale economies, which alone can ensure full development and are able to compete on the world market.
155.	The Treaty establishing the Latin American Free Trade Association was, therefore, a fundamental contribution to the formation of an integrationist mentality in Latin America, and has permitted the creation of the Andean Subregional Integration Agreement, which has acquired tremendous impetus.
156.	The agreements recently arrived at within the frame-work of the Andean Agreement are clear proof of the firm desire for integration that fills and inspires the countries parties to the Agreement. Integration, for us, is basically an undertaking for joint development, in which the creation of the productive machinery is from the outset converted into a common task. The approval of the joint industrial program for the establishment of the machine-tool industry shows the degree of compromise and the dimensions of the problems of development and, also, the will to arrive at a true agreement on integration.
157.	Together with all other Latin American countries, Peru is undergoing profound transformations and finds itself aligned with the countries of the third world, with, which we share a common denominator: under-development. For when we clearly understood the realities of our life as an under-developed and dependent society undergoing forms of domestic domination that were an extension of foreign dependency, we also discovered that our condition was shared with the countries of the third world which, in different ways, are tending towards liberation. Thus we find ourselves in a new situation. We are part of the so-called third world which daily, with wealth, generated out of its own poverty, contributes to the opulence and the power of the industrialized societies.
158.	We also realized that political independence is not enough to achieve true emancipation; that there persist subtle forms of political, economic, finance and technological domination geared to the maintenance of old forms of domination. Under-development is, to us, therefore, a multidimensional phenomenon. It emerges in the economic field but does not end there. It spreads to the entire social fabric and affects the cultural, ideological and political fields.
159.	The multi centered world that is emerging today must, as it does, show an equal multiplicity of structures in the economic fields, where the process of political detente must also be reflected. But if this were not enough to contribute to an improvement in the conditions of development of the third world, then we could not, in justice, contend that the risks of a conflict have diminished. For peace and prosperity that are founded on a position of structured under-development at the international level will always be precarious, no matter how noble and worthy the political and trade agreements worked out by the major Powers.
160.	The results of the three sessions held by UNCTAD, and especially that held this year in Santiago, have convinced us of the need to restate their supporting rationale in order to restore the mystique that surrounded them at the outset and that aroused so many hopes in our hearts.
161.	Within a new articulation of the world's economic affairs the third world must devise a consistent and united strategy that will make of it a single and sufficiently powerful unit. Our countries should continue to group together on the basis of productive interests, in order to acquire genuine negotiating strength that will ensure better prices for our products. This in turn will lead to our increased participation in the profit earned from trade in those products and thus we shall be in a position to recover sovereign control over the natural resources which give rise to that wealth.
162.	In the circle of domination and dependence which characterizes the structure of the relations .between developing and more industrialized nations, there is an element of distortion that contributes to imbalance, I refer to the multinational corporations on firms which have acquired a marked economic, financial and political influence in States, whose participation in world trade and capital flow is much larger than that of many countries, and which very often evade the traditional pattern of payments. The third session of UNCTAD showed the growing preponderance of these corporations that control between 20 and 30 per cent of the output of world trade, and alarm was expressed over their speculative role in the world monetary crisis.
163.	Thus far, the United Nations has not been able to deal with this important aspect of development but this failure will allegedly be corrected by means of resolution 1721 (LIII), recently adopted by the Social Council, which requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations to designate a group of experts to study the behavior of such multinational corporations, particularly in the developing countries, and their impact on international relations, so that their recommendations may guide Governments both in the adoption of sovereign decisions and in agreeing on appropriate international action.
164.	In the light of all these circumstances, which clearly highlight the problem of under-development and in the light of the political and economic reality which determines and conditions under-development, a most valuable initiative emerged from the third session of UNCTAD, namely, the idea of preparing a charter of the economic rights and duties of States and of establishing the relevant machinery for such a Charter. At the sUbregional, regional and world levels, Peru has taken an active and constant part in the laying down of principles to govern economic relations among States, and we are ready to participate also in this fundamental task of creating an appropriate international legal framework.
165.	The monetary crisis, its restrictive effects on trade and finance, and the Smithsonian Agreement, adopted without the participation of the developing countries, have had consequences that are prejudicial to the countries of the third world through their net losses in their dollar reserves as a result of the readjustment of exchange rates and other unfavorable developments in their terms of trade as well as the burden of foreign debts.
166.	The need to ensure the participation of the developing countries at the decision-making level in monetary and trade questions of vital importance to the international community was the purpose of the initiative strongly urged by Peru in the Group of 77 developing countries concerning the creation of an intergovernmental group on monetary questions. The final constitution of the group and the important recommendations made therein are to be presented now to the Committee of 20, established by the International Monetary Fund. We trust that an over-all solution to the monetary problem will be found through that group. If not, it will inevitably have to be sought in a world monetary conference, as was initially proposed by Peru.
167.	With regard to the forthcoming multilateral trade negotiations to be held in 1973 within the framework of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, the developing world has clearly defined the- principles that must govern the talks to avoid the marginalization of which it was the victim at the time of the last Kennedy Round. A further postponement would have dire effects on the economies of the members of the Group of 77 and, hence, on the welfare and progress of more than two thirds of mankind.
168.	International assistance is a duty and not philanthropy. Through it, the industrialized nations return a minimal part of what we have unquestionably provided them for the consolidation of their development and power. Aid, in order to deserve that name, must be free and not subject to contractual conditions. Peru rejects the type of assistance that is burdensome, that carries conditions and is provided on terms of political and economic subjugation, for it then becomes a pressure tool to bend the will of the needy countries against their own interests. Far from encouraging development, such assistance generates further poverty and dependency and belies the most elementary principles of international co-operation, which is intended to channel multilateral aid that should be accompanied by safeguards for sufficient decision-making power without the existence of pressures of any kind. My country, from its own experience, knows the stumbling blocks and difficulties encountered by requests for financing submitted by countries seriously embarked upon an independent course of development.
169.	But assistance must also be sufficient to reach the targets set by this Assembly itself for the Second United Nations Development Decade. According to the Assembly official financial assistance to the third world should be equal to 0.7 per cent of a country's gross national product.
170.	Although some industrialized countries have advanced towards this goal, the President of the World Bank himself has admitted that by 1975 average official assistance will have reached merely 0.35 per cent, that is, half of the target for the Second Development Decade. Yet this is happening at a time when the gross national product of the industrialized countries is increasing rapidly, leaving the developing countries behind and, most important of all, dramatically widening the gap between the wealthy and the poor countries of the world.
171.	Obviously, this situation cannot continue indefinitely and if the flow of official financial assistance settles at a level that is considerably below the target set for the Decade, which seems likely at present, then the international community will sooner or later have to face the need to reassess and restructure the terms of foreign indebtedness of the developing countries, whose fledgling economies will no longer be able to carry the burden of a growing mortgage upon their income, which is, unfortunately, all too often the experience of the countries which make up the third world.
172.	Regarding the question of the law of the sea, events have taken place that are important for the nations that would establish a just order for the use and exploitation of the oceans.
173.	The People's Republic of China in the United Nations, jurists of Asian and African countries at Lagos, the participants in the meetings of the Special Committee on Latin American Co-ordination of the Group of 77, and of the Foreign Ministers of the countries of the Caribbean, as well as the recent official statement of the Government of Cuba all, in one way or another, reaffirm the right of coastal States to dispose of the marine resources within the Emits of their national jurisdiction limits which an increasing number of nations have proposed should be set up to 200 miles. UNCTAD included this right among its new principles. Support for this view was voiced anew by numerous countries from the various continents at the recent meetings of the Committee on the sea-bed designed to prepare for the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. To all this must now be added the latest proclamations from the Governments of Gabon, Mauritania and Oman that extend the exercise of their jurisdiction beyond 12 miles and, in particular, the courageous attitude of the Government of Iceland to which my country reiterates its solidarity on this occasion.
174.	The facts mentioned are tangible and conclusive proof of the degree of international support achieved for the maritime doctrine which establishes a 200-mile limit in the new law of the sea.
175.	However, this vigorous trend does not seem to have been fully understood in all its implications by a small group of maritime Powers which are determined to establish a narrow zone of coastal jurisdiction in order to be free to exploit foreign waters at will.
176.	In any case, I believe it appropriate at this time to dispel any possible doubts on the issue by reiterating here the firm and unwavering position of Peru to maintain, and enforce respect for, our sovereignty and jurisdiction over the waters adjacent to our coast, including the soil and subsoil thereof to a distance of up to 200 miles, in order to promote the development and well-being of our people. This decision, not only adopted by the Government of Peru, but also shared by the Peruvian people as a whole for 25 years now, rests upon basic geographical, ecological, economic, social, political and juridical foundations that have been set forth at length in different international bodies and whose validity cannot be ignored since they flow from a law of nature and considerations of justice that must prevail over mercantile designs or the desire for hegemony of faraway nations, regardless of how powerful they may be.
177.	The resources of the bountiful fishing grounds lying off the coast of Peru whose existence would seem to be a form of compensation for the same natural conditions which determine the aridity of our coasts-are and will always be considered by Peru as an integral part of our nation's wealth whose use by our people no nation has the right to dispute. Let none believe that this truth-and this determination which is irrevocable can ever be flouted as long as one single Peruvian lives.
178.	The detente that is today clearly evident, has still not dissipated man's feeling that he is still living in the shadow of fear. The end of the dualist and antagonistic division of the world has in no way meant the end of power politics and confrontations which conditioned international relations over the last decades.
179.	Neither the sparse results of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament in Geneva nor the negotiations at the highest level between the super-Powers have given sufficient hopes for a solution to the world disarmament problem. Furthermore, there seems to be every indication of a lack of a definite will to assert a realistic and honest policy which would lead to final disarmament.
180.	Furthermore, we cannot fail to mention-or, one might better say, to denounce the tendency among certain Powers to accuse the developing countries of fomenting arms races among themselves. Behind this fallacious allegation lies the definite purpose of disguising, on the one hand, the magnitude of their own burdensome expenditures and also, and perhaps primarily, of shifting the responsibility that they bear for the development of the poorer countries. I repeat here, we consider that security is conditioned by development and, therefore, it is not in our interest to expend enormous amounts on armaments.
181.	The great Powers, dominated as they are by the tyranny of technology, spend enormous amounts modernizing their weaponry without considering the already precarious state of world security and certainly without a thought for the legitimate rights and interests of the nations of the third world. My Government therefore supports a restructuring of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to provide for the participation of all the nuclear Powers, and an increase in its membership so as to allow equitable representation for developing countries.
182.	If we have stated that the development of nations is closely linked to international security, it is obvious that world disarmament, and therefore nuclear disarmament, is the basic goal of all mankind at present. The vast sums spent on these activities and the dangers they represent to the human environment have repeatedly been considered by the international community in this Assembly and in other forums, such as the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment held at Stockholm last June, where we have asked for a condemnation of and a halt to nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere.
183.	Regrettably, we find that in the programs for nuclear weapon testing in the South Pacific, the announcement of a final suspension of tests in the atmosphere to be carried out over the Mururoa Atoll in the future has not been forthcoming. Peru once again condemns these tests and we shall continue to bend every possible effort to insure a cancellation of such nuclear tests which are undoubtedly a danger to mankind.
184.	At the present juncture in international affairs, Peru is following with great interest and, as is only natural, supports the general trend towards a relaxation of tension, as reflected in the establishment of talks at the highest level between China and the United States, in the Berlin agreements and in the understandings between the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea on the independent and peaceful reunification of the country without interference by any foreign State. We are also encouraged by the agreement reached by Pakistan and India on a withdrawal of troops from the Asian subcontinent.
185.	The process of relaxation of tension which extends also to the European scene calls for a re-evaluation of the specific political and economic situation in that continent. This would seem to indicate the need for the holding of a conference on European security and co-operation which will doubtless spell the beginning of a new era in the relations among countries of the continent, the ramifications of which will affect the whole world.
186.	We are attending a new session of the General Assembly, and so far no peace has yet been achieved in the Middle East. Despite the efforts of this Organization, Security Council resolution 242 (1967) has still not been implemented. We repeat to this Assembly our conviction that any solution that we attempt to provide for the conflict in the Middle East must be fitted into the framework of that resolution if guarantees of lasting peace are to be achieved.
187.	We also consider it of the highest importance that the Suez Canal should be reopened, as was stated at the ministerial meeting of the Group of 77 and at the third session of UNCTAD. The continued closure of the Canal causes considerable damage to the economy of the area.
188.	In Asia, the Viet-Nam conflict shows no sign of ending soon. The forces involved continue their bloody struggle, magnified now by the use of sophisticated weapons. No thought is given to the terrible sufferings of a people that will not forget the horrors of this holocaust for centuries to come.
189.	The Revolutionary Government of Peru considers that in the case of Viet-Nam no matter what solution may be considered to end the war, it will obviously have to be based upon the exclusion of intervention by other countries, so that the people of Viet-Nam will thus be able to exercise its right to self-determination.
190.	Peru will support any endeavor designed to have our Organization assume its proper role in the urgent search for solutions to put an end to that conflict, consonant with the purposes and principles of the Charter.
191.	The threat to world peace and security as well as to the effectiveness of this Organization as an instrument for the peaceful settlement of international disputes becomes more acute in the face of persistent problems such as colonialism, racial discrimination and apartheid.
192.	Thus, consistent with its own traditions and its sincere belief in social justice, Peru reiterates its support for the Security Council resolutions condemning all colonialist policies and reaffirming the application of sanctions against Southern Rhodesia, as well as the resolutions of the General Assembly which repudiate all forms of racial discrimination and apartheid.
193.	The world as a whole was shaken by the tragic events that took place during the recent Olympic games. These events only strengthen the views of those who affirm that the present world, in a paradoxical way, is generating an infernal dialectic of violence to combat violence.
194.	The Peruvian Government morally repudiates acts of international terrorism which convert any region of the world, including countries that are not parties to any dispute, into zones of irrational and pointless violence. My country has therefore always advocated in absolutely clear terms international arrangements within this Organization to increase security in the world.
195.	My country understands that very often violence is only a mistaken outlet for despair originating, perhaps, in conditions incompatible with the human condition. Social and economic conditions and the frustration of the just aspirations of peoples play an important role in this reaction.
196.	Peru condemns these acts recently committed against innocent victims, and also voices the most severe censure against other forms of violence that seek to obtain through vengeance what ought to be claimed from the human justice and the conscience of nations.
197.	The United Nations should become the definite means of reaching understanding among men and peoples; one through which differences will be overcome through a new approach, one by whose help the contradictions of wealth and poverty, development and under-development, will become less deep and lead to the humanization of men of all latitudes.
198.	In the era of revolutionary change in which we live an era in which ideas and customs, concepts and actions are questioned in depth the United Nations continues to provide the best and most appropriate framework for harmonizing change and overcoming conflict. The limitations in which this work is carried out do not detract from its importance or weaken our faith. The inconsistency between the lofty aims of the Organization and much postponed justice confirm our certainty that no solutions are possible without the will and true agreement of the parties involved.
199.	Now that a better disposition toward dialog and coexistence seems perceptible among nations in a spirit of understanding and respect for a reality consisting of a plurality of concepts and ideologies, we believe that Organization can fulfill its mission and come closer to its lofty aims. It is because of this that the people and Government of Peru sincerely renew once again their very firm and convinced adherence to the principles of the Charter and their confidence in the destiny of the Organization.


===== Session 28 - 1973 =====
﻿78.	 Mr. President, on behalf of the Government and the people of Peru, may I express my cordial congratulations to you on the fitting choice this great Assembly has made in electing you to preside over its twenty-eighth session. This election is a well-earned recognition of your outstanding qualifications as a diplomat and your brilliant career as a jurist and an internationalist. For Ecuador, a country with which we are very closely linked by fraternal ties of friendship, it is a just tribute with which all Latin America can identify. We are sure that with your abilities you will preside over this session of the Assembly with the necessary skill, capacity and firmness and that this will be a further success in your triumphant diplomatic career.
79.	May I also express my friendly greetings to Mr. Stanistaw Trepczyriski, whose efficient handling of the last session confirmed the qualities that we all recognized in him and whom my Government had the pleasure of receiving in Peru.
80.	I should also like to offer my sincere appreciation to our illustrious Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, for his effective and devoted efforts to bring about a full application of the principles and tenets of the Charter to the relations among our countries.
81.	1 should also like to express our greetings to the new States Members of the United Nations — the Federal Republic of Germany, the German Democratic Republic and the Bahamas. The participation of these new Members will certainly be a valuable contribution to our endeavours to achieve fulfilment of the purposes and principles of the Charter and a manifest expression of the universality of the Organization.
82.	The process of relaxation of tension encouraged by the great Powers has proceeded apace, reducing the risk of a nuclear confrontation. There are signs of improvement in the world situation. The Viet-Nam agreements, the International Conference on Viet Nam, held in Paris, the initial approaches between the two Koreas concerning reunification, the agreements between India, Pakistan and Bangladesh, the convening of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe and the admission to membership in the United Nations of the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic are so many proofs.
83.	The East-West rapprochement taking place at present stands as a solution to the problems inherited from the Second World War, although basically limited to the developed areas of the world and the result of strategies of nuclear deterrence between the two greatest rival Powers.
84.	However, the security and peace yearned for by two thirds of mankind — that is, the countries of the third world — is not included in the blueprint for detente, for aggression and intervention are still sources of permanent danger that thwart the liberation of peoples struggling for their freedom.
85.	The Paris agreements are not being fully complied with in the countries of the Indo-Chinese peninsula, for foreign interference still continues and self-determination of the peoples is ignored. There is no reason to be encouraged about a solution to the Middle East question. The impasse persists without withdrawal from the occupied territories, respect for the existence and sovereignty of all the States of the region or recognition of the rights of the Palestine people. In sum, Security Council resolution 242 (1967) is not being carried out, nor is there determined support for the important efforts being made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
86.	The rivalry among the great Powers in the Mediterranean continues, and this aggravates the already existing situation in the Middle East. Tensions flowing from power politics create insecurity in the Persian Gulf.
87.	Tension in the Caribbean countries continues; the persistence in keeping Cuba semi-isolated shows that. In the same region an anachronistic neo-colonial mentality stands in the way of the effective exercise by Panama of sovereignty and jurisdiction over the entirety of its territory.
88.	In Africa, cruel and retrograde colonial wars and repressive policies of racial discrimination and apartheid continue to cause suffering to the peoples of Guinea-Bissau, Mozambique, Angola, Zimbabwe, Namibia and South Africa.
89.	In the South Pacific, the pronouncements of international public opinion and justice are overlooked and atmospheric thermonuclear tests continue.
90.	One of the principal tasks of the Organization should be to strive to extend the present detente to all regions of the world, thus eliminating the sources of stress that I have listed. Regions like the Mediterranean, the Caribbean, the South Pacific and the Persian Gulf must be constantly kept under surveillance by the United Nations so as to ensure in them respect for national independence, the renunciation of the use of force, the dismantling of military bases, the prohibition of nuclear tests and the development of peaceful co-operation in general. It will thus be possible to establish international security that will encompass all areas of the world and be equally applicable to all countries, both of the prosperous zones and of the third world.
91.	The impoverishment of the populations of the regions outside the main centres of world power is increasing at an accelerating rate, and with it there emerge new forms of domination and dependency in economic, political and technological fields.
92.	But within this general scene the absence of a nuclear conflict between the great Powers does not spell security for the third world. In the underdeveloped areas uncertainty and social unrest are rife, appearing in new shapes and forms. Security for the third world lies in an over-all and self- sustaining development, the basic liberating instrument for peace. It is for that reason that both here and elsewhere we have stressed the concept that security must be completed in a new and significant dimension that will define the reality of the developing countries. I refer to what I have already mentioned, that is, that in our revolutionary experience security and development have been shown to be aspects of the same reality, and for that reason security cannot be described only as the absence of warlike conflict.
93.	By the same token, it is appropriate to recall that of the 55 conflicts that have broken out since the founding of the United Nations and of the 255 subversive movements that have shaken world peace, 95 per cent have had their roots in the third world, as the lamentable result of the imperialist policies and neo-colonial pressures on our countries. For this reason, any peace that overlooks that majority of mankind, any peace that ignores the liberation of the people of the third world, any peace that is merely the absence of hostilities among the great Powers is a precarious, unreal, unjust peace. It does not spell security or stability for us, much less justice for our development. It is peace in opulence — which is not that of the third world.
94.	Security among the States Members of the United Nations must also include the concept of an economic security that will guarantee the right of the majority of mankind to a comprehensive development and prevent threats of economic coercion or pressures of any sort.
95.	Collective economic security in international relations would imply the renunciation of the use of economic force and unilateral power politics and assure respect for the overall development of States. Collective economic security would also imply a commitment to take "collective action" to repel measures of economic force tending to oppress the sovereignty of States, and also united action to help meet emergency situations that cannot be resolved by the internal effort of a developing country, in order to provide the necessary assistance.
96.	The Security Council meeting in Panama in March this year was proof of a qualitative change of approach regarding the use of force in international relations. The Security Council considered that in Latin America there did exist threats to international peace and security, not only due to armed aggression but also to structural situations of dependency, domination and colonialism. Resolution 330 (1973), adopted by the Council at that meeting, is a significant step in the repudiation of the use of force.
97.	We believe that resolution is a great contribution by the developing countries to the strengthening of the United Nations as a mechanism for safeguarding the development of the countries of the third world. Without doubt it will also serve as the foundation for the system of collective economic security under study that must urgently be set up, and for this reason it is imperative to accelerate the studies being done by the United Nations.
98.	Aware of the changes taking place in the world today and of the situations arising from the constant emergence of new States, Peru joins those who contend that the Security Council, as constituted at present, is not representative of the aspirations of peoples. The present composition of the Security Council, in which a small minority of Powers wields the veto, is a situation that must be altered, since within the organ itself it allows the play of power politics by the great Powers.
99.	The right of veto was intended to meet a political reality arising from the Second World War. For this reason we should weigh the need to devise a formula to avoid the paralysis of the Council in the exercise of its high functions due to an abuse of powers which in themselves violate the political and juridical equality of States and gainsay the true democratization of international relations. A first step might be to apply the provisions of the Charter itself which provide that the States parties to a dispute shall not vote. Likewise, as some have stated, the General. Assembly should be empowered to reject a veto cast by a single State against the votes of all the other members of the Security Council, who do in fact represent the international community.
100.	Peru considers that a further indispensable step for strengthening international peace and security is the convening by the United Nations of a world disarmament conference with the participation of all States.
101.	The objective of such a conference would be first to achieve a qualitative disarmament, that is, the suspension of all nuclear tests in all environments to forestall any improvement in such weapons. Secondly, the conference would go on to quantitative disarmament through the elimination of existing nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction.
102.	Despite the pronouncements of the General Assembly, of the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment,  of the International Court of Justice and of the coastal States of the South Pacific, atmospheric tests on the atoll of Mururoa continue.
103.	The Revolutionary Government of the Armed Forces of Peru is aware of its moral authority to oppose such tests and considers that the United Nations should take up the request of the Fourth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held this month at Algiers, that an end be put to the atmospheric nuclear tests in the South Pacific.
104.	We also consider it imperative that the United Nations strengthen the effectiveness of the Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation, so that it may be able to complete its work with the assistance of, and benefiting from the experience of, all peace-loving countries and provide information, as objective as possible, requested by the countries affected by nuclear explosions. The Committee can no longer continue to depend on information supplied by nuclear States, when it is very often unable to detect the explosions and the magnitude of the radiation.
105.	True to the principles and purposes of the Charter, and in keeping with the evolution of the international situation, Peru considers it its duty to reinforce and universalize peace and security through effective and realistic inter-American co-operation reflecting the process of detente among the great Powers.
106.	In the American region, the Organization of American States [OAS] has supplied the purely formal framework for political, ideological, economic and cultural institutions of intracontinental co-operation and solidarity. Although its charter  prescribes the principles and norms for international conduct in the hemisphere, we cannot overlook the fact that behind these stand countries possessing differing economic and social structures and at different stages of development. On the one hand, there is a world super-Power with its opulent and expanding market economy, and on the other, developing countries with disjointed, economically dependent societies.
107.	From the very outset the basic standards of inter- American relations were warped because of the hegemony of the United States over the countries of Latin America. The creation of inter-American organs and institutions, such as the Interamerican Development Bank, though they are apparently multilateral, in no way changed this structural flaw in our relations. Thus, a lopsided and imperfect system has grown up based on domestic and foreign domination and within the context of the defence of spheres of influence of the cold war.
108.	Recent developments in Latin America attest to the emergence of growing community awareness, the result of common and parallel histories, of shared conditioning from the outside and a common destiny which we now begin to see clearly. The restructuring of the inter-American system now taking place is a clear proof of the degree of awareness and compromise that our countries have achieved along these lines. It also anticipates the new profile we seek for our continent. The Revolutionary Government of Peru, together with other nations, called for the convening of a special commission for the restructuring of the inter- American system; that was an act which we believe clearly shows our dedication to a true America and for the effective application of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations in our region.
109.	The work being done by that special commission in Lima and Washington should lead to the outlining of a restructuring that we trust will permit a true adaptation to the new inter-American reality. It could then become a regional system that would effectively serve the purposes of the Charter of the United Nations.
110.	In one word, we want an end in Latin America to all forms of imperialism, colonialism and neo-colonialism. We want a Latin America united on the strength of a genuine development with justice for its peoples, and, finally, the promotion of Latin America to the forefront of the international dialogue as full-fledged spokesmen and free actors in our own destiny.
111.	The contribution of the third world to world peace is an objective reality primarily confirmed throught the non- aligned movement. The evolution of international relations has only gone to prove the certainty and permanence of the objectives of the policy of non-alignment.
112.	The growth of the progressive forces of peace, independence and the progress of mankind is proved by the fact that more than half of the States members of the international community were represented at the Fourth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non- Aligned Countries, held at Algiers. Once again non- alignment showed its dynamism and pluralist vitality with the presence of Latin American countries in an evolving world, thus reaffirming their stand against all types of imperialism, colonialism, and neo-colonialism.
113.	For the Revolutionary Government of the Armed Forces of Peru, its foreign policy of non-alignment is a correlative of the profound commitment of the Peruvian revolution to insuring the participation of our people in both the process and the benefits of development through a society in keeping with our national realities. Thus, we have devised a coherent ideo-politica! formulation that impresses its independent and autonomous personality on our revolution. The goal of our revolution is to transform the economic, social and political system of our country. To do so our revolution draws its inspiration from the richest currents of humanism and socialism, which by nature are imbued with the concept of liberty and therefore imply a clear stand on dogmatism and totalitarianism. In practical terms our objective is to establish in Peru a pluralistic economy with full participation for all.
114.	I should like to recall a paragraph from the message by the President of Peru, General Juan Velasco Alvarado, on the one hundred fifty-second anniversary of national independence:
"The achievement of the great ideal of full participation, the very essence of the revolutionary humanism which we advocate, presupposes the gradual but definitive abandonment of manipulative behaviour and intermediary machinery that in the past deprived our citizens of the right to share in and decide upon all aspects of social life. It also calls for the equally gradual but also definitive break with paternalistic and authoritarian conduct that illegally presupposes a position of inferiority for those who are humble and poor. All this is in order to safeguard and defend the basic concept of dignity and the pre-eminence of man as a specific social being and as the forger of history and life."
115.	We are witnessing a qualitative shift in history; the contradictions of the opulent societies of the industrialized States have become obvious. The enormous concentration of capital, the disorderly use of technology, the greed for power and endless wealth are all producing dire situations which are manifested in the energy crisis, raw materials and the dehumanizing conditions of life. At the same time we are witnessing a growing inflation in the developed economies.
116.	The countries of the third world are confronting immensely important political possibilities. It is within our grasp to achieve our total liberation and it is up to our political will to turn weakness into strength with our unity. Replacement of the strategy of claims by one of uniting for negotiation is a legitimate way to defend our national resources.
117.	The non-aligned nations, and Peru among them, consider recovery and full exercise of permanent sovereignty over natural resources and control of the basic economic activities of those resources to be some of the immediate steps to be taken. The right of the developing nations to nationalize their natural wealth and to adapt the payment of compensation for them to their own domestic systems has been supported by the Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries meeting in Algiers.
118.	Furthermore, exploitation and direct merchandising, as well as support for and creation of associations of raw material-producing countries, are very effective meats for strengthening our negotiating power and obtaining mutually advantageous international trade both for the producers and for the consumers. That will also strengthen our development. In this respect, the non-aligned nations have agreed to the convening in the near future of a conference of developing nations to co-ordinate a global strategy on raw materials in the light of the critical situation that could activate irrational exploitation of our resources and unjust price policies.
119.	Two agreements which are examples of the increasing solidarity among the non-aligned nations and which allow of a certain optimism regarding the future of our countries are to favour the creation of a fund for development and solidarity among the non-aligned nations, to promote financial and technical co-operation among them; and the establishment of a system of consultations and emergency measures within the group for mutual assistance in cases of aggression in economic relations, such as pressures, coercion, economic blockade, the freezing of credit and any direct or indirect measures aimed at limiting the sovereignty of States and curtailing the right of all countries to their own autonomous development.
120.	The controversy over the law of the sea has finally been understood as one of the basic chapters of the struggle against underdevelopment and against the hegemony of certain Powers that would confine the sovereignty and jurisdiction of other States to narrow limits while remaining free themselves to exploit the natural resources of distant seas.
121.	The Algiers Conference saw more than 60 Heads of State or Government support the 200-mile limit without prejudice to the freedom of navigation or to the regime of the continental shelf. They also supported the notion of regional solutions, the elimination of threats to the security and sovereignty of States and the establishment of an international authority empowered to undertake the exploitation of the sea-bed beyond the limits of national jurisdiction as the common heritage of mankind.
122.	For 26 years Peru has defended its maritime sovereignty and jurisdiction over the 200-mile limit, and therefore we are gratified by this support, which reaffirms the reasons and validity of a cause once deemed unrealistic and rash, and allows us to foresee, as set forth at Algiers, "the establishment of a new regime governing ocean space which is based on the principles of justice, security, peaceful coexistence, development and well-being for all peoples."1"
123.	We trust that this new order will be established and that there will be an end to the obstinacy and shortsightedness of those who would extend to the sea the very imperialism we are fighting. Be that as it may, Peru will maintain its resolve to preserve its maritime sovereignty and jurisdiction with the unshakable and unyielding will of one who knows that he defends his own independence and destiny as a nation.
124.	Co-ordination, co-operation and solidarity among the developing countries are characteristics of the present international situation, but together with this laudable effort on the part of the countries of the third world external conditions must also be created propitious to self-sustaining and independent development.
125.	I cannot fail to mention the concern of the Revolutionary Government of the Armed Forces of Peru over the steadily deteriorating economic conditions of the developing countries caused by policies foreign to their own efforts. Interference in the sovereignty of States multiplies;
neo-colonialism in the developing countries and the unfettered activities of transnational corporations continue; trade and monetary agreements among the developed countries tend to diminish the participation of the third world in world trade and to flout the principles of international cooperation.
126.	It therefore becomes imperative for the developed countries to realize that international co-operation for development is one of the basic components of a permanent, universal peace that will permit full security for all States.
127.	According to United Nations surveys, everything seems to indicate that by 1975 — that is, just half-way through the Second Development Decade — the trade and financial deficit of all the developing countries will amount to at least $17 billion. Half this amount, or perhaps more, will be to cover the flow of capital to pay for utilities from foreign private investment and invisible services and the other half to cover the trade deficit caused by the deterioration in terms of trade. We must therefore abandon our role as exporters of capital and importers of inflation.
128.	This circle of domination that characterizes the structure of the economic relations between the third world and the industrialized countries makes it impossible to fulfil the modest objectives of the International Development Strategy. The countries of the third world, with 70 per cent of the world population, subsist on a meagre 30 per cent of world income, and by the end of this decade the average per capita income will be $3,600 for the developed countries and a paltry $265 for the developing countries. Surely we must all agree that the International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade is failing thus far. International action is required, as called for by the Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries in the Action Programme for Economic Cooperation adopted in Algiers in order to convene "a special session of the General Assembly at a high political level devoted exclusively to the problems of development," including the achievement of the objectives of the International Development Strategy and the revitalization of the organizations of the United Nations system devoted to international co-operation.
129.	Among the efforts of the developing countries to make international co-operation more dynamic, Peru supports the holding of the Second General Conference of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization in 1975, and we reiterate our offer of the city of Lima as the venue for the Conference.
130.	The present international situation is characterized by the coexistence and convergence of the great Powers and by the multipolarity of the world. But this is the result not only of the bold diplomacy of the powerful nations but of the long historical struggle of new forces and social values emerging in the world of today. These new social forces have challenged the established order and set forth an undeniable need for world coexistence as a basis for ideological pluralism. The development of these progressive forces is manifested mainly in the regions of the third world and is embodied in the unshakable struggle of the peoples of those areas for more just living conditions and for their own autonomous solutions for freeing themselves from domestic and foreign domination. Because of the increase in world poverty and the just struggle against it, the centre of gravity of international relations and conflicts is shifting to the third world, thus giving our people considerable revolutionary weight which is making them new protagonists in contemporary history.
131.	The new historic moment in which we find ourselves calls for a new approach on the part of the developed countries, an approach that must understand that the interrelation between development and underdevelopment required co-operation and solidarity.
132.	Once again Peru reaffirms its faith in the world Organization as the forum most apt to know the problems affecting international peace, security and co-operation and as the appropriate institutional framework for just solutions to disputes occurring among States.


===== Session 29 - 1974 =====
Before I begin my address, I wish to express to our sister Republic of Honduras the great grief and solidarity of the Government and people of Peru in connexion with the enormous natural catastrophe which has afflicted that country in the last few days. We trust that the United Nations will take immediate action to contribute to the recovery of the brave Honduran people from this disaster.
165.	Mr. President, on behalf of the Revolutionary Government of Peru and the Peruvian people, I wish to express to you my sincere congratulations on your unanimous election as President of the twenty- ninth session of the General Assembly. The high responsibilities entrusted to you are merely an undeniable recognition of your qualities as a statesman and of your dedication to the cause of non- alignment and the third world and your efforts in support of that cause.
166.	I should also like to express a cordial greeting to Mr. Leopoldo Benites, from our sister Republic of Ecuador, for his outstanding and very effective role as President of the General Assembly at its last two sessions the regular session and the special session.
167.	Similarly, I should like to express to the Secretary-General the appreciation of my Government for the' devotion and spirit of sacrifice with which he has contributed to the solution of the difficult problems which affect the peace and security of the world.
168.	It is with particular satisfaction that my Government welcomes Bangladesh, Guinea-Bissau and Grenada, new States Members of the Organization, whose participation will greatly contribute to the fulfillment of the purposes and principles of the
Charter and a concrete expression of the universality of the Organization.
169.	Allow me to consider first the framework of the international situation. Detente between the great Powers has continued; new dialogs and new agreements during the year so far are proof of this. The danger of a nuclear war is no longer with us and the years of the cold war seem to be a thing of the past. However, detente at the summit has neither eliminated nor diminished conflicts at the periphery. On the contrary, the countries of the third world face even mo violence these days. Suffice it to mention the continuing wars of liberation in Viet Nam and Cambodia; the persistence of a tense situation in the Middle East and the emergence of a new such situation in Cyprus; the policy, which is a remnant from the past, that has been maintained against Cuba through a partial blockade which has clearly proved to be an anachronism and a failure; and the fact that the Indian Ocean, far from being a zone of peace, grows day by day as an area of rivalry.
170.	Thus, the international situation rests upon a fragile and precarious state of peace and security. That is so because the hegemonic designs of the great Powers continue to be their everyday practice. There is an obvious contradiction between the detente being sought at the level of the great Powers and the fact that the developing nations are being thrust, socially and economically, into an increasingly marginal situation, and such a contradiction leads to ever more pronounced radical trends in the revolutionary potential of these nations.
171.	We are living at a moment of critical stock-taking in which the world status quo is being increasingly questioned. We are witnessing a qualitative break in the course of history resulting from a social upheaval which has its origins in the sharp increase of poverty caused by relations of domination and dependence.
172.	The present international situation is very fluid and very revolutionary. It becomes apparent in the multidimensional struggle of the countries of the third world to create a new international economic order which takes concrete form in the defense and recovery of natural resources; in the affirmation of the right to explore and exploit the riches of the seas adjacent' to their coasts; in the effort to regulate and control the excessive power of the great multinational corporations; in the general struggle for liberation from imperialism, colonialism and neocolonialism; and in the endeavor to achieve authentic revolutionary models without foreign interference, bolstering national culture and identity.
173.	It is in that vein that the President of Peru, General Juan Velasco Alvarado, said: 
"We are also aware of the radically new meaning of the present moment in the history of mankind; this is more than a mere rhetorical expression. It is a proven description of reality, for we must all understand that the old system of domination and dependence must be abandoned and the categories which served in the past to express the political reality of the world must now be redefined. The concepts of peace, security, and international co-operation, among others, must be profoundly revised. And, in the deepest sense of the expression, the moral order which was the foundation for international relations in the past must also be substantially altered."
174.	Cyprus and the Middle East are contiguous areas of grave international tension, which require preferential consideration in this forum. Cyprus is occupied and divided, and it is the task of the United Nations to bring about the restoration of its independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. Direct dialog under the auspices of the Organization might constitute a procedure that would allow a peaceful solution capable of reconciling the interests of the two communities inhabiting the island and lead to the withdrawal of the foreign forces that are there today. In that same spirit, the non-aligned movement, which the Government of Cyprus helped to found, must play a substantial role in achieving those objectives.
175.	The Middle East continues to be a zone of conflict, although the conflict has now acquired a new form. The use of oil as an instrument of negotiation has become an effective means of securing compliance with the resolutions of the Security Council, which have been so often reiterated by the non- aligned countries. The cease-fire and disengagement of forces, though only provisional measures, must constitute a necessary basis for the achievement, through the negotiations at Geneva, of a just, lasting and definitive peace, based on the principles of respect for the existence, integrity and sovereignty of all States in the region, the non-acquisition of territories by force and the recognition of the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people.
176.	The Revolutionary Government of Peru, with a firm pacifist conviction, has contributed to achieving the relaxation of tension in the area by sponsoring resolutions of the Security Council and by sending a battalion as part of the United Nations Force, which initially carried out a mission in the Sinai and at present has as its sphere of operations the Golan Heights, as part of the disengagement observation force in that critical area.
177.	Without any doubt Africa is the area where a considerable change for the better has taken place with regard to the fulfillment of the purposes of this Organization. The tenacious struggle of liberation movements, with the political support of the non- aligned countries, has resulted in a positive change in the colonial situation. The new Government of Portugal and its progressively oriented armed forces have participated decisively in the change, thus permitting the confirmation of the independence of Guinea-Bissau and the taking of steps towards the emancipation of Mozambique and Angola. The heroic feat of Amflcar Cabral, who set in motion the liberation of his people, has achieved a happy and a just result. His spiritual presence remains with the young nations that have joined and strengthened the ranks of the third world in the movement towards justice and for the continued struggle against all forms of colonialism, apartheid and racial discrimination.
178.	Peru, as one of the first countries to recognize Guinea-Bissau, welcomes that valiant nation on the occasion of its admission to the United Nations and offers its fraternal co-operation.
179.	We also view with pleasure the formation of the Provisional Government of Mozambique and trust that that country will achieve its full independence as soon as possible.
180.	In Latin America a unified conscience is clearly emerging which will not allow exclusions and which is founded on ideological pluralism, nonintervention and the sovereignty and equality of all States. Historical experience underlines the fact that the achievement of unity within our plurality is essential in order to define and defend our true interest, deepen our interrelationship and reach our common destiny within the overall global context. 
181.	December of this year will mark the 150th anniversary of the epic feat of liberation which occurred at Ayacucho, where armies from South American countries, as brethren under the leadership of the liberator Simon Bolivar, put an end to colonial domination, thus consolidating the emancipation of America. The Government of Peru wishes to celebrate that historic anniversary with the presence of the presidents of those countries which were represented on the battlefield at Ayacucho, where the first kind of independence, political independence, was achieved. At that summit meeting we must lay the foundations for the reaffirmation of the imperative need to preserve our unity and solidarity in order to achieve, once and for all, true economic independence for our peoples, which is the second kind of independence.
182.	The Revolutionary Government of Peru, which participates actively in the search for formulas to help in bringing about peaceful coexistence and co-operation for the development of the region, firmly rejects and condemns intervention in the internal affairs of other States, whether it be political or economic, military or paramilitary, overt or covert intervention. Peru reaffirms that respect for the principle of non-intervention, in conformity with the Charter of the United Nations and with the charter of the Organization of American States, must be one of the basic foundations for bilateral, inter-American and global relations.
183.	Latin America shares an identity of structural situation with the countries of the third world and therefore its struggle for liberation acquires a universal scope. My country has made a contribution to a review of existing international relations by offering Lima as the site of the forthcoming ministerial meeting of non-aligned nations to be held in 1975, so that that review may take place. The meeting will serve to co-ordinate the efforts of countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America to achieve a new international order which will ensure the effective democratization of international relations. In that way the Peruvian revolution, which is ideologically autonomous, humanist and essentially Latin American, and imbued with a third-world policy, will contribute once more to the constant improvement of the international situation in America and in the world.
184.	The United Nations is still the most visible international stage, as it were, where it is possible
Digitized by Dag Hammarskjold Library
to observe with t'.e greatest clarity a world situation characterized mainly by the persistent struggle of the third world for liberation. That struggle is taking place not only in the military and politico! fields but also in the economic and technological fields, wherein lie the main factors for obtaining full and total independence. In that sense it is no mere coincidence that the three major conferences of the United Nations held this year have addressed themselves to the defense of human potential and natural resources both from the land and from the sea. The sixth special session of the General Assembly, on raw materials and development, the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and the World Population Conference dealt essentially with one and the same problem the inexorable need to modify the anachronistic and unjust system of domination and dependence.
185.	The sixth special session showed, in the light of the energy crisis, that the wealth and growth of opulent industrialized consumer societies depend on the extraction of natural resources from developing countries. This in turn shows clearly that the relationship between the industrialized countries and those of the third world has entered upon an era of interdependence, which must take the form of an effective equality in the political relations of States, based on a new technological and financial co-operation, geared towards the full development of the developing nations and respect for their sovereignty.
186.	The sixth special session also showed that the international economic order which has been in existence since the first capitalist industrial revolution is fragile, does not make economic sense and threatens to worsen the world economic crisis. That experience demonstrates the need to change the present unjust international economic structure. For this purpose we feel that one of the tools of change is the establishment of associations of developing countries which are producers and exporters of raw materials, in order to create the negotiations power necessary to defend their prices, setting aside sterile confrontations, and also to correct the imbalance of economic power which is so unjustly weighted against us.
187.	The existence of multinational corporations which exercise enormous economic and political power is a contemporary phenomenon which has a world-wide dimension and has of late become a serious means for imperialist penetration, responsible to a large degree for the economic crisis and the pollution of the environment which is detrimental to human life itself. I therefore believe that one of the greatest challenges facing us is that of limiting once and for all the uncontrolled freedom of action of those corporations in order to safeguard the sovereignty of States and the heritage of mankind.
188- The Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States has not been finalized because of the lack of political will shown by certain industrialized States. This important document must include legal and economic rules which, while ensuring the rights of States to full development, must also include the basic principles of the historic Declaration on the Establishment of a New International Economic
Order adopted by consensus at the sixth special session of the General Assembly.
189.	The Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, held at Caracas, has also called into question the system of domination and dependence, and rejected the old order. At that Conference the 200-mile limit was virtually accepted as an irreplaceable symbol of the new law of the sea, for the recognition of which Peru, together with other nations of Latin America and Africa, has struggled unflinchingly. Peru has defended for 27 years, in a firm and dignified manner, the position of sovereignty and jurisdiction over the sea, its subsoil and soil up to 200 miles as a substantive element in the new legal order and the recognition of a cause that is indissolubly linked to the security, welfare and development of peoples.
190.	Another event of singular importance is the consolidation of the principle of universal social ownership of the sea-bed beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, the administration of which should be carried out by an international authority to be established with the equitable participation of all States. In accordance with the consensus of the Group of 77 developing countries, the exploitation of the resources at the bottom of the sea should not be carried out for the purpose of mere profit. Rather, it should be truly placed at the service of the peoples of the whole world as the common heritage of mankind.
191.	At Caracas, thanks to the cohesion of the third world, the formulation was begun of a new law of the sea, which, in its humanist inspiration, must become an instrument of justice, co-operation and peace, and no longer a tool for hegemony at the service of the great Powers.
192.	Contradictory positions were put forward -\t the World Population Conference, held at Bucharest last month. The theses which link underdevelopment solely to the population explosion and its solution to birth control were rejected by numerous developing countries, because population growth beyond resource supplies reveals a social and economic imbalance originating in structures of domination and dependence which prevent a proper balance between population and resources. The solution lies not in birth control, but rather in a structural change which would allow for true economic development. Today the problem of the population explosion may be seen as a consequence of a poor distribution of wealth, which, in turn, gives rise to unequal levels consumption.
193.	As long as opulent consumer societies, which constitute a minority, absorb 40 per cent of the total natural resources and energy produced in the world, there is no justification whatever for the attempt by those societies to impose population policies and measures on an international scale because, really, all they reflect is their own interests. For these reasons, my country, together with other States of the world, has stated the need for each country to set its population policies independently, and has supported the World Plan of Action on Population.
194.	An industrial development which will permit a just distribution of wealth, while ensuring at the same time the protection of the marine environment, is a great challenge to today's civilization. Peru has endeavored to contribute to meet this challenge by offering Lima as a site for the Second General Conference of UNIDO. That Conference will have to consider, with imagination and audacity, the type of industrialization most advisable for the different developing countries. Hence the need for all Members of the Organization to lend their full support and co-operation for the success of the conference.
195.	The United Nations must reflect institutionally the new international situation, as has been stated by the Secretary-General in the introduction to his report on the work of the Organization [AI9601I Add.I]. We need a more dynamic, critical and creative Organization, that is to say, an instrument for change, uninfluenced by the trappings of bureaucracy. This creates the need for a more effective participation of the Secretariat in order to give more force and effectiveness to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter.
196.	The rule of unanimity in the Security Council, also known as the right of veto, was based on an international order in which the risk of conflict arose principally between the great industrialized Powers. This was the result of the experience of the Second World War. Today, new forces have emerged on the international scene, requiring a review of this institutionalized way of wielding power. The countries of the third world, to which international conflict has shifted, are those which have to withstand the critical situations, and in most cases, they suffer the consequences of an arbitrary veto and have no option in that situation.
197.	It is therefore an imperative necessity to reach a formula that will limit this excessive prerogative, which simply reflects a past realism and violates the principle of the sovereign equality of States. Accordingly, we feel it is advisable to consider a possible solution. A veto by a great Power could be superseded or neutralized when a large majority of the General Assembly came out against it. Thus the hegemonic interference of a great Power in a conflict affecting small or medium-sized Powers would be neutralized and the prevalence of a single will over that of the international community would be avoided.
198.	As we have stated, international peace and security, which are elements of the same reality, demand institutional change in view of the new world structure of power. It has been clearly demonstrated that for the third world the absence of major conflicts between the great Powers is not the same thing as peace. Hence the need to widen the concept of security by injecting into it an economic content.
199.	For a developing country the use of economic pressure can have effects which are as deleterious as armed aggression. Therefore, since it threatens international security it constitutes aggression in itself. Security Council resolution 330 (1973) created precedents in this new context in calling for an end to economic measures of coercion by States or multi-national corporations. As a corollary to this we feel
it is necessary to stimulate efforts towards the establishment of a system of collective economic security to preserve the sovereign right of States to self-sustained development.
200.	The strengthening of the United Nations as an organization capable of creating a framework of political confidence among States is closely related to the problem of general and complete disarmament. At present, the fragility of peace in all regions of the world is the result of the development of the destructive power of sophisticated weapons, which threaten the very existence of the peoples of the world. Fear and uncertainty have generated an alarming arms race both among the great Powers and among the developing countries. According to United Nations studies on the subject, about $270,000 million are spent on weapons annually that is to say, 20 times more than is spent on development cooperation. This is a sum greater than the combined gross national product of Africa and Asia and far greater than that of all of Latin America. Hence it is necessary to establish the requisite control machinery and to formulate a disarmament policy directly related to a new philosophy for development co-operation.
201.	Peru, which has recently been invited to participate as a member of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, is extremely interested in contributing to an acceleration of the work of that Committee. Our deep pacifist convictions have been properly expressed in the initiative of the head of the Revolutionary Government of the Armed Forces of Peru, General Juan Velasco Alvarado, who has proposed that in Latin America the acquisition of armaments be limited for a period of 10 years in order not to divert resources needed for development. The proposal has earned the determined support of many countries of the Andean Pact. We are sure that by these means we shall establish the confidence needed to facilitate integration and development in Latin America.
202.	If we want a new world order in which justice will prevail we must help to create it. We can hardly call for international change and participation in it if we do not transform the obsolete structures of our own society. Consequently the Peruvian revolution humanist, just, libertarian, socialist and Christian builds its doctrinary base on a permanent awareness of our own reality and formulates an authentic ideological and political concept of a social democracy with the participation of all. In Peru today the profile of a new revolutionary society is clearly emerging. Large sectors of the population, fully conscious of their historic role, are rising and participating in solidarity in the process of the social creation of wealth and in its benefits.
203.	An important step in this direction has been the creation of social ownership a sector which will enjoy priority and preponderance in the economic organization of the country. This form of social and common ownership is different in essence from a system of private or State property and will be exercised through the workers themselves organized in free production associations, which in our concept of revolutionary humanism makes man a profound creator and doer. In this context and as a necessary step towards the future Peruvian society, the revolution has freed the press from the minority circles of private and family ownership and handed it over to the organized sectors which are truly representative of the Peruvian people.
204. Freedom of the press in Peru will no longer be mistaken for the biased freedom of private publishing companies or the manipulatory concentration of the publishing industry in the hands of the State. Today in our country freedom of expression is a right extended to all the people. These measures are in conformity with Economic and Social Council resolution 756 (XXIX), which states that the information media must be at the service of the people.
2051 I cannot fail to stress in concluding that the emergence of the peoples of the third world constitutes a new, dynamic force which is transforming contemporary international relations. Our nations have abandoned the status of petitioners, which flourished in the paternalistic atmosphere of the past, in order to follow the path of autonomous development. Liberation for the third world is development, and there is no development without liberation. The order of the day for them is to make unity a principle and solidarity a strategy so as to transform our peripheral and marginal status and achieve, in dignity and justice, the position in the international community which is rightfully ours.
206. There will be no peace in the world until we see the end in our countries of conflicts which originate in different forms of imperialism, the remnants of colonialism, distorting cultural penetration, intervention and pressures of all kinds, no matter how subtle. In a word, peace in opulence is not the peace of the third world. This forum, which is so familiar with conflicts, must become familiar with justice. To that end we, the peoples of the third world, demand respect of our right to be masters of our own destiny, to achieve our full development, and especially to eradicate, in this way and forever, uncertainty, social unrest and poverty.


===== Session 30 - 1975 =====

It is an honor for me to speak once again from this rostrum on behalf of the Revolutionary Government of the Armed Forces of Peru, as well as in fulfillment of the mandate of the ministerial meeting of the non-aligned countries, held in Lima at the end of August of this year.
44.	I wish to express, Mr. President, my country's deep satisfaction upon your election to guide our proceedings during the thirtieth session of the General Assembly. Luxembourg and Peru maintain cordial relations and I am confident that the eminent Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs will, with dignity and skill, guide our deliberations on the issues of transcendental importance which this Assembly has before it.
45.	I wish also to express my most sincere appreciation to the Foreign Minister of Algeria, Mr. Bouteflika, whose diligent performance as President of the last session has raised the historic cause of the third world to a stature of renewed international vigor and influence.
46.	I wish also to thank the Secretary-General for his visit to my country at the beginning of this year. On that occasion, he displayed for us a sample of the efforts which he devotes to the many international problems absorbing the attention of our Organization. I believe it appropriate on this occasion to wish him success m the delicate tasks before him in his office, a success we all hope for in the cause of the strengthening of peace and security.
47.	A few weeks ago, I had the singular honor of being the spokesman for the Foreign Ministers of non- aligned countries in presenting to the seventh special session of the General Assembly the results of the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non- Aligned Countries held at Lima from 25 to 30 August 1975. On that occasion, I analyzed the economic aspects contained in the Lima Program of Mutual Assistance and Solidarity A/10217 and Corr 1 annex]. Essentially, I pointed out how the results reached at Lima constitute a clearly-defined strategy directed towards strengthening the autonomy of the development processes, as well as areas for concrete action in mutual co-operation and solidarity, in face of the collapse of the unjust international economic order, thus transforming the non-aligned and developing countries as a whole into a dynamic element of greatest coherence in the structuring of the new order.
48. In the political field, the Lima Program spells out as it does in the economic field, systems for consultation and solidarity for a common protection
against pressures, overt or covert, against our territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence, as well as the machinery for mutual co-ordination designed to strengthen our negotiating capacity in international bodies. We defend today, as we always shall, the right of peoples to their political and economic independence, and to formulate their social and economic Programs in accordance with their own values. We defend, and shall give practical effect to, the right to convert the equality formally recognized in the Charter into specific rights with political content and weight. It is not through a wish for obstinacy or confrontation, but through the exercise of the weight of our voice and our vote that the discussions in this body will be marked, for in it we have a legitimate place and the full right to defend the interests of the peoples of the third world.
49.	The Lima Conference reviewed the international situation and considered its most salient aspects in the light of the lofty aims of our movement. This review enabled us to confirm that non-alignment has become one of the truly significant factors in the international scene, and that it appears as an effective historical option for peoples aspiring to independence, equality, full development and peace. Furthermore, in the present circumstances, marked by a hardening of imperialist policies and a serious economic crisis, concerted policy and the action of countries rejecting the power politics of the Powers is imperative for the vast majority of peoples which seek only the peaceful promotion of their just aspirations and rights.
50.	The non-aligned movement is basically an inter-national anti-imperialist and anti-colonialist position, committed to action directed towards overcoming situations of conflict, and especially an international order based on keeping the majority of mankind at a subsistence level. Our struggle is not related to the present situation; rather, it challenges a whole system the historical validity of which is decreasing day by day as the forces of liberation advance.
51.	I will not review the Lima agreements in detail. I shall simply underline the fact that our movement is determined to promote actively the implementation of those agreements, for they all conform with the letter and the spirit of the Charter of our Organization. Therefore, to those who would see in non-alignment a new bloc, we could answer that the things we are fighting are in fact power politics, hegemonic policies, the indefinite postponement of the aspirations of peoples which have contributed and still contribute to the well-being of others, the continuance of sources of tension, and the continuance of imperialist, colonialist and racist policies. These are the obstacles preventing men from living together as human beings and striving together to achieve everything that befits their higher nature.
52.	Peru has reaffirmed its unshakable commitment to the enlightened objectives of non-alignment. In this context I shall now turn to those matters which, as Foreign Minister of my country, I wish to put before this session of the Assembly.
53.	The results of the seventh special session take their place within the context of the multidimensional long-term efforts to which the third world countries are deeply committed. The results of the special session are not totally satisfactory to us. There still exists a wide gap between our just demands and the resolutions adopted in this hall some days ago. Therefore we must state that the third world will not abandon its just demands. The Declaration and the Program of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order adopted at the sixth special session [resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI)], the principles and action Program agreed by the non-aligned countries at Algiers and Lima, and the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States [resolution 3281 (XXIX)] maintain for us their full validity and importance. Those documents are an integral part of the process which is questioning the very basis of the present unjust economic system, rejecting the paternalistic approach which seems to consider aid as a substitute for a just distribution of world wealth, and proposing as an alternative for the development of the third world, principles and measures aimed at radically altering international economic relations.
54.	The thirtieth anniversary of the United Nations, which we are now observing, takes place at a moment in which the vitality and creative richness of our Organization is being tested. Far removed from the solemn attitude that usually accompanies institutional decay, the opposing forces of today provide the vigour and energy necessary to face the challenges facing the United Nations in a world undergoing a far-reaching structural crisis.
55.	The United Nations, which arose out of the Second World War, was obliged for many years to concern itself with security and with the ideological struggles of the great Powers; those were the circumstances in which the Organization was functioning. Those were the years of automatic majorities and the abuse of the veto. In those years the United Nations was nothing more than the most appropriate diplomatic instrument for gauging the desire for confrontation of those striving for global supremacy,
56.	It was only in the middle of the 1950s, when new States were admitted, that the United Nations began to assume a responsibility consistent with future trends, and successfully dealt with the first serious anti-colonial crisis of Suez in 1956. From then on, and throughout the 1960s, the United Nations devoted itself with varying degrees of emphasis to the decolonization of Africa and Asia. This process was accelerated and complemented in the ever more systematic concern with the under-development of the newly independent peoples. Thus the United Nations began to detect the causes of under-development in the very situation of dependence in which the metropolitan Powers had maintained the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America.
57.	The political decolonization sponsored and promoted by the United Nations is increasingly linked with the notion that a situation of dependence inhibits development.
58.	Thus the United Nations is initiating a process of democratization in international economic relations, first through the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, and more recently through the sixth and seventh special sessions of the General Assembly, on raw materials, development and cooperation, which set forth the overriding significance of the concern of the United Nations with institutional problems, as it marks its thirtieth anniversary.
59.	In this brief historical summary there is one constant theme: the gradual emergence of the developing world and the appearance of questions crucial to their internal and international interests, that is to say, the overriding and consistent pressure for the United Nations to confront, and not avoid, the problems facing the international community in the difficult relationship between countries which were until recently subjected, and the Powers which had exercised a dominating role which they still wish to perpetuate.
60.	The prelude to and the apparent cause of the increase in tension between the developed world and the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America is the global economic crisis which has already produced a pattern of multiple isolation. As the economies of certain industrial Powers contract, they seem to become increasingly short-sighted, and the precarious political and economic order of developing countries has been weakened with the collusion of transnational corporations, through the reactionary activity of oligarchical minorities and the promotion of militarism, aimed at weakening progressive Governments. This new anti-historical offensive on the part of economic neo-colonialism and regressive forces only heralds the final liquidation of those very systems of dependence.
61.	Thus we have seen, since the beginning of the year and since the last session of the General Assembly, the triumph of the peoples of Viet Nam, Kampuchea and Laos. The year 1975 therefore constitutes an historic landmark on the road to the general liberation for which the peoples of Latin America, Asia and Africa are striving.
62.	The last quarter of the century will witness the establishment of a process of economic and political liberation, a proliferation of victories in the anti- colonial struggle, which will embrace the full breadth of the Southern Hemisphere. Truly authentic regimes will be set up which are consonant with the real character of the peoples concerned, and which will lay aside those models which recent history has already proved inoperative in the modern world.
63.	It is therefore particularly heartening for the Government and people of my country, wedded as they are to the common revolutionary process, to share the same vision of the international situation as that held by more than 80 non-aligned countries.
64.	In another sphere, the Final Act of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe signed at Helsinki confirms in traditional terms the consolidation of the process of detente between the great Powers, providing the old European continent with the peace and tranquility it has been denied for so long. It is significant that values such as non-intervention, guaranteed frontiers and free cultural exchange are reflected in this Agreement, which establishes the means for growing political understanding between East and West. Doubtless this will be followed by new steps in arms control and, it is to be hoped, will lead towards the as yet unattainable goal of general disarmament. However, the process of detente is progressing without embracing the third world. Our peoples are absorbing the major impact of the economic crisis since the industrial Powers are transferring the inflationary spiral to us; and, while in the world centers the areas of peace and security are being consolidated, the tensions generated by the interests of the superPowers are moving out into the less well-defined and more vulnerable zones in the developing countries.
65.	We have witnessed the continuation of a critical situation in the Middle East, in which the agreement between Egypt and Israel is a new element. The key to a future prompt solution obviously resides in the criteria recognized by this Organization for years in Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338
(1973)	.	Those resolutions call for the total withdrawal of occupying forces from Arab territories to the 1967 borders and the legitimate recognition of the sovereign rights of the people of Palestine. These points are particularly urgent. Any mediation discounting these principles will only achieve precarious results. Therefore we will support any solution satisfying the interests of the parties directly concerned.
66.	We view with concern the crisis in a non-aligned country Cyprus, whose integrity and sovereignty must be preserved. General Assembly resolution 3212 (XXIX) and Security Council resolutions 365
(1974)	and 367 (1975) are instruments which govern the negotiations carried out by both communities under the auspices of the Secretary-General. My Government hopes that these negotiations will be successful. In this connexion my country is highly appreciative of the confidence placed in the Peruvian Ambassador, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, who has been appointed the Secretary-General's Special Representative in Cyprus.
67.	In reiterating its full support to the struggle for freedom and against racism in Angola and all southern Africa, my Government warmly welcomes those peoples which have just achieved their independence in Cape Verde, Sao Tome and Principe, and Mozambique and welcomes them to this Organization. We also express our satisfaction that Papua New Guinea and the Comoro Islands have achieved independence.
68.	Peru deplores the resurgence of colonialist and racist practices in southern Africa. We have noted with concern that early independence for Angola may be thwarted and we expect concerted action in this Organization to facilitate self-determination of the Zimbabwean and Namibian peoples. We hope that the practice of apartheid in those Territories and in all of South Africa will soon be abolished.
69.	My Government points out this resurgence of colonialism with real concern, for in our own continent situations threatening independence also persist. We thus support with deep conviction the anti-colonial and nationalist causes of the people of Latin America and reaffirm our unconditional backing of our sister nation of Panama with regard to the enclave existing in its territory, while condemning the vestiges of colonialism in many parts of the continent. This support is not, nor has it ever been, a mere additional expression of views. The reform of the international system itself proposed by my country three years ago includes a direct challenge to colonialist attitudes, as well as systematic support for the currents of liberation in our country. The most tangible and influential aspects of this anti-colonial policy have been and continue to be the strengthening of sovereignty, the consolidation of practical machinery of control and the promotion of solidarity among our countries with regard to natural resources, which have traditionally been the object of colonial exploitation by transnational corporations and are now the source of Latin American hope for a new order once economic independence has been achieved. This is the perspective for the struggle and conviction that inspires our continent and it entails efforts for united action and will indicate new areas of co-operation among sister States.
70.	Despite the existence of a positive evolution in trends towards liberation, only today are we able to understand that, beyond the inefficient and rational administration of social factors, there exists a greater and more serious historical constant of systematic exploitation: women. The concern and civil backwardness which this exploitation implies has led to a growing awareness and resulted in the World Conference of the International Women's Year held this year at Mexico City. The principles and plan of action adopted there to promote true equality of women and their integration in the process of development cannot be isolated from the general evolution of contemporary political currents.
71.	On the contrary, those principles and goals, both politically and ethically, may generate trends towards liberation capable of breaking the standstill in the world situation. If the principles of equality and integration formally adopted by the women's Conference are truly implemented, mankind would be able to recover a new understanding of values which have been tenaciously repressed through violence and poverty. The quality of life that new generations will ask for will depend to a large extent upon the creativity, information and standards of behavior which doubtless involve liberated women, either individually or as a future factor of history.
72.	After the appearance of anti-hegemonic policies in various regimes of South-East Asia, and shortly after the victory of liberation movements in IndoChina, vast oceanic areas have become involved in movements and competition of a military nature. The reorganization of military bases as a consequence of changes in the strategic interests of the superPowers, undermines the Declaration of the Indian Ocean as a Zone of Peace [resolution 2832 (XXVI)] and also threatens the imminent creation of a zone of peace and co-operation in the South Pacific, as was agreed at the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries held in the capital of my country from 25 to 30 August 1975.
73.	The establishment of zones of peace has been until now the only option left to the third world in seeking to protect itself from the soaring nuclear escalation and the consequent military imbalance which continues to prevail without any possible or feasible means of control.
74.	Last May there was an opportunity to evaluate the first five years of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons [resolution 2373 (XXII), annex]. This was a treaty which, since its opening for signature, had been hailed as an undeniable symbol of the march of mankind toward that other great United Nations cause: disarmament.
75.	However, the collective renunciation of nuclear weapons made by the developing countries, and the simultaneous guarantee of a maintenance of a monopoly of atomic weapons on the part of the great Powers, was based on a clear and expressed counter-commitment, that is to say the implementation of a process of general disarmament which would guarantee security for all. The facts are not encouraging. Not only has there not been a single effective step toward general disarmament, and even less toward nuclear disarmament, but rather the growth of arsenals and the increasing sophistication of instruments of mass destruction have been accompanied with close co-ordination between the super-Powers by an audacious disarmament rhetoric which attempts to convince world opinion that control measures reached thus far have been substantive and not simply psychological.
76.	They would have us believe that measures as vague as the prohibition of biological and meteorological weapons, as well as the peaceful uses of the sea-bed and outer space, compensate For the continuation of nuclear weapons testing and the undeniable vertical proliferation of nuclear armaments. In the face of this fact, the moral obligation of non-nuclear countries deriving from the non-proliferation Treaty is seriously at stake.
77.	It is in view of the sinister disarmament situation described above that developing countries are seeking a way to break the state-mate of the nuclear status quo.
78.	Peru's presence in the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament is a recent event, and it demonstrates our deep and genuine desire to divert the resources devoted to the tools of war to the pressing requirements required to develop peoples; at the same time we must not forsake a complex evaluation of this question. We must seek new opportunities to obtain the implementation of the principles of general and complete disarmament, long ago expressed in this body. We therefore hope that it will be possible to convene a world disarmament conference soon and with universal participation, and that it will be able to work effectively, transforming the present loosely- knit semi-rhetorical exercise into a political negotiation, capable of committing all parties to a cause in which there can be no losers. In order to reach that desired goal of true negotiation, my Government, together with the non-aligned countries, would look favorably upon the early convening of a special session of the General Assembly on disarmament.
79.	This request of ours stems from the realistic conviction that the struggle against the arms race in Latin America does exist. Implementing an initiative of the Government of Peru on the limitation of the acquisition of weapons among States members of the Andean Group is a reality. It has left the stage of pure concepts and principles and is now moving towards a more difficult but more fruitful stage, in which problems and implementation are being spell out. With the meetings already held in Lima and in Santiago and those scheduled for the future, it will be possible to move away from the momentary influence of an artificial climate of warmongering and tension, in which these interests combine with profit-
seeking transnational corporations connected with the media and the weapons industry.
80.	Just as the results of the recent special session on development must lead to the establishment of a new and more just international economic order so will the disarmament meeting which we advocate contribute to the democratization of international political relations. Both trends would converge in the achievement of collective security at the world level, solidly based upon an equitable economic redistribution and mutual political tolerance, as required by the next phase of international construction.
81.	It is clear that, just as security is the essence of the concern of developed Powers and the key to their deepest political process, in the third world the priority goal of Governments is solidarity and reciprocal co-operation in order to guarantee economic independence. Importance has naturally been attached to the Helsinki Conference as it responds to the central interest of the developed world while, at the same time, the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Lima, is a clear demonstration of the historic trend towards unity and a common economic strategy shared by countries of the third world. These two Conferences, these two trends, would seem to diverge because the areas in which they coincide are still minimal and therefore the possibility for rapprochement between these two areas, which still define their own interests with their backs to one another, is also minimal.
82.	Until the circumstances or the institutions can be directed to seek, preferably, areas of convergence, these two trends may evolve, dangerously, in opposite directions. Future negotiations, therefore, must be focused upon the most pressing problems with regard to unity and the global perspective, that is to say, they must encompass development as well as disarmament, because world security and historical evolution of mankind is involved in both dimensions.
83.	Therefore, drawing from the spirit of the Helsinki and Lima Conferences we must strive to solve problems relating to security and to development so that they may be dealt with in two great world conferences, one on disarmament and one, which we propose, and we invite the Assembly to consider, would be devoted to the just restructuring of the economic and social order of relations among States.
84.	We firmly believe that we shall thus be taking fundamental steps to establish a new world coexistence on the basis of the link between three great problems affecting mankind: peace, security and development. The relationship between security and development is most obvious, since the greater expenditure on weapons, in the name of apparent security, the more the world becomes insecure. Fewer resources are devoted to the development of mankind and the satisfaction of the needs of peoples, and thus situations of poverty, oppression and injustice, generating insecurity for all, are maintained and even aggravated.
85.	The progress made at the last session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, at Geneva earlier this year, has led to increased recognition of the sovereign rights of coastal States within zones of national jurisdiction not exceeding 200 miles with the exception of continental shelves extending beyond that distance, and without prejudice to the interests of all States in international communications. At the same time, the foundations have been laid for the establishment of an international authority charged with the administration of the area of the seabed beyond the limits of national jurisdiction, as the common heritage of mankind.
86.	My country, together with others of the region, has sustained in a firm and worthy manner for over a quarter of a century the thesis that the defence of sovereignty and jurisdiction over the sea, its soil and subsoil up to 200 miles is a substantive element of the new legal order and the recognition of a cause which is inexorably linked to the security, welfare and development of peoples.
87.	Nevertheless, we can see on the part of some Powers an effort to weaken the nature of national jurisdiction and the areas over which it would extend and at the same time to favor the unrestricted exploitation of the international area, in order to allow those selfsame Powers to maintain their economic, political and military hegemony.
88.	However, due to the action of the third world countries, a new international law of the sea is being formulated which will regulate the use and exploitation of the seas and contribute to the promotion of development and security of peoples as inseparable requirements and conditions for justice and peace among nations.
89.	It is not untimely now to point out how deeply our people shares this Organization's mission of peace. Peru has until very recently contributed troops to the United Nations Emergency Force in the Middle East, and has always lent its support to all United Nations efforts. May I take this occasion to pay a heartfelt tribute to those soldiers from my country who unselfishly spilled their blood upon the hot sands of the Sinai desert in the cause of maintaining peace in that region. My country today confirms its boundless commitment to the principles of the Charter, adopted at San Francisco, which are still at the heart of this already mature institution. In this perspective, it is fitting to consider the reforms of the organs of the United Nations which are appropriate to this new phase, including voting reforms, in order to ensure an effective democratization of political decision-making at the international level, particularly in the Security Council and with regard to the anachronistic institution of the veto.
90.	What we seek and to this the vast majority of countries which comprise the non-aligned movement are devoted is that the discussions which are central to mankind, in order to define the parameters of its immediate future, should genuinely take place in this body; that a scheme for total disarmament be negotiated at last; that practical stages and areas of agreement will be reached so that the integrated development of the third world can complement and vitalize the new international economic order; that the establishment of standards of behavior for transnational corporations be speed up; and that problems which impede the final liberation of women and the related problems of the future quality of life should be moved from the desks of academia and brought here before the United Nations.
91.	Within this context, the agreements reached at the meetings of the ministers of the non-aligned countries acquire special significance because they are designed to ensure that the legitimate aspirations and postulates of the third world reach world public opinion without being distorted. It is therefore imperative to reorganize the present mass media channels, which are the heritage of an antiquated colonial system, so that they will not be an obstacle to the free and truthful flow of information among the developing countries, and thus ensure that understanding and cooperation among the peoples of the world will not suffer.
92.	The concerns which I have summarized on the international situation indicate, as I am sure is apparent, a certain optimism which would seem difficult to reconcile with the overburdened agenda of this session.
93.	Our vision is optimistic because it is born of the intimate experience of a vast complex of problems at the national level. The Revolutionary Government of Peru is preparing to deepen and consolidate, in this great second phase, under the guidance of its President, General Francisco Morales Bermudez, the initial achievements of the early years of the Peruvian revolution.
94.	Peru is a country in which Government and people are united in an endless struggle against the structural situation of under-development. It is a country in revolution which has raised the banners of social justice and independent, self-sustained development. Our revolution, with the renewed urgency of its ideological postulates, is inscribed within a Latin American, third world and non-aligned context, which defines the meaning and direction of our foreign policy.
95.	I would reiterate what I confirmed two weeks ago in this very Hall: the Peruvian revolution of today is the same as that which began to make history in my country on 3 October 1968. It is the same because it holds the same titles to revolutionary legitimacy: a yearning for liberty and justice and for the structural changes which will bring about a new Peruvian society predicated on the principle of social democracy based on full participation, the bases of which are a political system of participation for the Peruvian people, a pluralistic economic system with a priority sector of social property; and a social system founded on moral conduct and values which underscore justice, liberty, solidarity, creativity and respect for the dignity of the human being.
96.	Just as the change in Peru's internal structure has been deep-rooted in order that its people may share in the process and benefits of change, the future international order must be structured in such a way that the interests of the third world can be promoted through its effective presence and participation in the decisions and implementation measures which will make it endure.


===== Session 31 - 1976 =====
Mr. President, in addressing this central United Nations forum as Minister for Foreign Affairs of Peru, I am pleased to express my Government's satisfaction at your election as President .of the thirty-first session of the General Assembly. Your brilliant professional career in a particularly difficult period for multilateral diplomacy, as well as the perseverance and distinction of your actions in favor of the fundamental interests of the third world and of peace, bode well for a fruitful session, during which I offer you the best efforts of the delegation which I lead.
106.	At the same time, I should like to place on record the gratitude of the Government of Peru for the important and clear-sighted actions which have characterized the term of office of the Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, a period which has seen our Organization reach near universality in its membership and in which serious problems have been faced, problems rooted in a profound alteration of the structure of international relations.
107.	Last year, when the United Nations had been in existence for three decades, attempts were made to assess its historical role. We then participated in the expression of a multiplicity of viewpoints and a rich diversity in emphasis as well as in the assertion of criticism. We thus witnessed how, by expressing our aspirations and pointing out the obstacles to them, we could reach a positive conclusion- of cautious optimism about the international role of the United Nations.
108.	In reaffirming Peru's support for this world Organization, I wish on this occasion to add a word of encouragement regarding our sincere concern about the future responsibility of the United Nations, specially in relation to the need for a change in the political will of the nations of the world in the direction of future collective action for peace.
109.	Today we have fresh in our minds the struggle of peoples which have won their liberation and unity with their blood. Today when the passing away of one of the great leaders of mankind, Chairman Mao Tsetung, provides us with the serenity and the perspective to draw up a precise balance-sheet of the evolution of the world; today when the vain arrogance of racist regimes is being shaken by the attacks of oppressed peoples and the pressure of the universal conscience, the time has come to ask ourselves with humility and above all with realism whether the time has not come to change an archaic and short-sighted mentality which refuses to perceive not only what is inevitable but also the advantages and benefits of the great historical change of our times.
110.	On this occasion Peru reiterates its most genuine desire to participate loyally in the process of true understanding and co-operation and to maintain, within the necessary framework of the review and reform of the unjust structures which still prevail, the most open and fruitful relations with all the peoples of the earth so as to work together in that common task of ensuring for small as well as large, for poor as well as rich, that freedom and justice which today more clearly than ever are an irreplaceable and urgent requirement in the cause of maintaining peace and security, a cause to which this Organization is essentially and fundamentally committed.
111.	It will avail us nothing at this stage for each side to endeavor to reiterate that: in the economic field we have no wish for confrontation. That confrontation which we do not wish to avow but which holds the industrial, commercial and financial world in suspense and which is at the root of the international economic crisis which we are unable to overcome-constitutes the most tangible proof of the interdependence which the new correlation of economic forces, and hence of political, military and strategic power, has brought to light in its full dramatic dimensions. We live in a world so interdependent that the mere rumor of the rise in the price of a single commodity is capable of shaking the foundations of the great industrial Powers, which in turn anticipate the possible repercussions of other adjustments in different sectors of the production of strategic natural resources.
112.	In the process of seeking genuine world understanding which we advocate, we commit our most sincere and positive efforts without reservation, as befits the independent, tranquil and constructive nature of our revolution, which is nationalist, humanist and inspired by the principles of Christianity, respectful of liberty and human rights, committed only to the supreme and abiding interests of its people and to solidarity with other peoples which struggle for the same ideals; ours is a revolution which is not identified with any imported model and which stubbornly defends its conceptual autonomy and its ideological independence; it is a revolution, finally, which on the international level expresses itself through a foreign policy proudly independent and sovereign, deeply Latin American, third-world, non-aligned and avowedly universal.
113.	It appears impossible to calculate the true importance of the contours defining the international context of the past few years. But it is symptomatic that the resulting configuration coincides, in its evolution and nature, with the essence of the work of this forum, with the political function of the United Nations. It shows the appropriateness of shaping this world institution for the future and not the strength of the great Powers, or to foreign policy as a game of influence or a means of coercion.
114.	In line with that reasoning it Is relevant to sketch out certain central aspects of tile agreements of the Fifth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non- Aligned Countries at Colombo, so brilliantly presided over by the Prime Minister of Sri Lanka, Mrs. Bandaranaike, who has today so clearly explained the agreements arrived at which confirm the common views on the present nature of international relations. The precise reaffirmation of the fundamental principles of non-alignment, through an independent foreign policy, which is the dynamic essence of the movement, means that it is on the basis of free determination, independence and peaceful coexistence principles originally put forward by a small but important group of Latin American, Asian and African countries that the catalytic nucleus of developing countries in the recent phase of international relations is being built today.
115.	I do not believe that I err in underscoring that the Colombo Conference will project above all a legitimate vocation for horizontal co-operation, a profound trend towards collective self-sufficiency, no longer of the members of the non-aligned group alone, but of the third world in its entirety. This paramount task of our countries will play a preponderant role in the future structuring of international relations.
116.	Against that background there are three concrete concepts that could be included within the framework of our debates at this thirty-first session of the General Assembly. The first concept refers to the pressing task of making universal the process of detente set into motion by the super-Powers. But if detente were extended to the third world without first eliminating residual conflicts, that not only would be unrealistic but also could become a cause for growing competition and general risk, instead of a prelude to peace.
117.	Needless to say, the elimination of the sources of tension to which I am referring is not a simple matter. Essentially it involves a historical cycle of adjustment and readjustment of the structure of international relations which are complicated by a state of dependence that is more acute than ever today and subordinates the economic aspirations of the countries of the third world to the so-called priority demands of the established global order. The political essence of the North-South economic confrontation, the polarization of the opposing interests of the developed and under-developed world in respect of the resources of the earth, their distribution and control, condition any final settlement and constitute the second concept to which I have referred.
118.	The third task of this Assembly would thus be the positive projection of the aforementioned definitions- that is to say, the reformulation of the process of detente at the global level and the new political framework of the North-South economic confrontation.
119.	The provisional or preventive character of solutions recently applied to critical questions in international relations is a total departure from the type of approach which we are suggesting and which is rooted in the imperative need to bring into effect a world order based on the complementary nature of the process of effective democratization of international relations and the new international economic order.
120.	The absence of the third world from effective decision-making has produced partial, incomplete emergency measures, particularly in the painful conflicts in the Middle East, Cyprus and South Africa: In each of these cases the absent factor is precisely the indispensable element for a complete solution. I am referring to the lack of consultation of the wishes of oppressed nations.
121.	I believe that it is difficult to harmonize the wills of the developed world and the emerging world in terms of the reformulation of the future political context unless the will to dominate that has been manifest in the political and economic relations between nations for centuries is set aside in advance. A policy which allows institutions so repudiated as apartheid, which attempts to disguise the crudest racism beneath a paternalism which is as repressive as it is counter-productive, can only be the fruit of a distorted view of human values, which we, too, repudiate. It is on the basis of that judgment that our support for the liberation of southern Africa and our constant and definitive rejection of racist practices is derived.
122.	My country supports the efforts recently made in the search for a peaceful solution in southern Africa, efforts in which, under the auspices of great African statesmen -who feel in their flesh and blood that there is an imperative need to find a solution to this tragic situation-we are pleased to note that distinguished European personalities and the United States Secretary of State personally are participating. Like everyone present here, we hope that these efforts will soon prove fruitful. I must add that in our view no solution can be definitive unless it takes into account the rights of oppressed majorities -that is to say, unless it contributes to the attainment of the legitimate aspirations of African peoples, aspirations which Peru has the honor to defend.
123.	The Economic Declaration of the Colombo Conference [A/31/197, annex II] sets forth a program for mutual co-operation which represents a step forward in the efforts to enabling developing countries to attain well- being.
124.	The recovery of basic resources, the just pricing of those resources, and the constant and level-headed defense of our economic activity require co-operation among developing countries, not only in respect of raw materials but also in order to lay the groundwork for their just participation in the monetary and financial design of the future world economic system.
125.	The shift in the balance-of-payments problem of the bulk of the third world, the alarming indebtedness, unemployment and recession in our economies are now added to the grave problems facing many independent regimes in the under-developed world. While that is occurring, we have witnessed the truncated dialog that took place at the fourth session of UNCTAD in Nairobi, as well as the impasse which arose as the Conference on International Economic Co-operation in Paris.

126.	In a word, we realize that, side by side with an experiment in horizontal co-operation, ambitious in its dimensions, an economic crisis of enormous and unforeseeable effects persists, one against which there is no wish to apply structural solutions capable of mobilizing the vast resources of our peoples.
127.	Against this background, at its test session the Third United Nations Conference of the Law of the Sea has achieved little that was fruitful in tangible terms. In part this can be attributed to the fact that it was convened prematurely, when political circumstances were hardly propitious for negotiations. The problems facing the Conference are very difficult, especially as regards the sea-bed beyond national jurisdiction, an area which happens to provide an opportunity for the concrete application of the principles of the new international economic order. For this purpose, however, it is indispensable that the developed countries approach the question of the sea in that context so that we can progress and reach an agreement at an early date.
128.	In putting forward general guidelines for international action emanating from a conception based on honesty and equity of treatment, I must confess that precisely for this reason the Government of my country finds it difficult to understand recent interpretations by various sectors which distort the essence of our political process and therefore jeopardize the exercise of responsible international opinion. I say this because I find these simplistic interpretations of Peruvian reality particularly inexplicable at the very time when my Government is setting out to implement a policy which lays down the pragmatic character of its actions on the basis of continuous consultation and dialog, consultation which only at the national level can give us a true measure of the actions we are taking. I say "at the national level" because, the measures we adopt being Peruvian measures for a strictly Peruvian problem, certain distorted interpretations in the international arena can hardly be helpful.
129.	I believe it is the unwavering duty of the Government of Peru to analyze and evaluate the trajectory and methodology which has been applied for eight years in an atmosphere of peace and profound human tolerance and has been aimed at achieving revolutionary objectives which remain unalterable.
130.	If that analysis and evaluation, which are the clearest expressions of the humanist meaning of our revolution, are interpreted otherwise, they will be of little help for the pragmatism we seek at this phase of the Peruvian revolution coinciding with the development needs of our country in an atmosphere of peace and harmony.
131.	I am convinced that world public opinion will find it possible to grant my country, which is imbued with a deep sense of responsibility and solidarity, an objective appraisal and more just treatment, particularly when, as is now the case in other countries, we are suffering a grave economic crisis the overcoming of which requires serious internal sacrifices and the broadest possible international co-operation.
132.	Latin America has not only contributed to the strengthening of self-determination and non-intervention as basic principles of international relations; when it faced obstacles to the consolidation of its republican personality, it confronted incessant threats from the centers of power to the juridical rationale of its incipient nationalism. Through this long experience of national struggle and affirmation Latin American countries have been able to combine their varied internal and diplomatic resources. They have made key changes in internal power relationships. They have produced models for development of different types and have assumed a cultural mix which identifies us with our particular nature within the context of the third world.
133.	In this long process of national formation in Latin America we see a liberating dynamism which is presented with the very first moments of national identity. It started three years ago, and at that time a dynamic current of social reform was unleashed, a current which has already achieved marked influence. I have in mind the gradual control and management of natural resources, the systematic defense of sovereignty over those resources, the preparation and adjustment of our different development processes to a preferential concern for social justice.
134.	Externally, the Latin American republics have impressed a creative sense upon the process of their national formation. We have promoted this since the very beginning of our republican era 150 years ago. We have laid the foundations for a single nationality through the ideals of liberty and unity which inspired our liberators.
135.	This very year we are celebrating the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the Amphictyonic Congress of Panama, an early diplomatic event sponsored by Peru in which the vocation of Latin America for unity was manifested, and we established a precedent for a world conclave. It seems just and timely, therefore, that Latin America and the brother countries of the third world should turn their eyes to Panama and offer it their solidarity and support in its efforts to gain sovereign control of the Canal Zone, an anachronistic vestige and an obstacle to an understanding between the collective personality of Latin America and of North America.
136.	In the present circumstances Peru thought it essential to stress its efforts to meet the desire for unity in Latin America and institutional models through which those purposes can best and more concretely be fulfilled.
137.	The fulfillment of both conditions has so far made possible the vitality and vigor of the Andean Group and, in a wider context, the promising establishment of the Latin American Economic System, to which, as in the case of the Congress of Panama 150 years ago, Peru gave its full support, as it would in regard to all effective efforts at integration in Latin America.
138.	Nevertheless, the mere existence of these institutional arrangements does not in itself guarantee fulfillment of the aims which constitute their raison d'etre, as the destiny of the regional organizations will ultimately depend upon the unshakable will of their Governments and their commitment to one of the earliest ideals of Latin America integration.

139.	In the case of Peru, the historical commitment to the cause of integration, from its closest and most intimate sphere, the Andean context, determines an obligation, to enrich it permanently through joint action with our neighbors, who share the Bolivarisn ideal of integration and the depth and wealth of aims on which the Cartagena Agreement  was founded.
140.	Latin America's historical participation in international affairs has led it to make a particularly constant contribution to the treatment of key United Nations issues. I am referring to, among others, the economic issues, the regime of the oceans and the disarmament and denuclearization formula, tasks within which Latin American thinking has played and continues to play a major role.
141.	The notion of dependency as a conditioning factor of under-development leads us to a widely operative language in international economic forums and constitutes the very same structural link which Latin American countries have been defining in explaining the present economic crisis. Secondly, the legal system of three Latin American countries on the Pacific defending their sovereignty over the sea up to a 200-mile limit has become a substantial element of any solution to the problem of the law of the sea. Lastly, from the denuclearization of Latin America, established by the Treaty of Tlatelolco,  to the proliferation of zones of peace, Latin America is one in steadfast safeguard and defense against the nuclear threat of the Powers.
142.	The international commitment of the Revolutionary Government of Peru is, in the present phase, identified with the renovating, profoundly Latin American conception of the international status quo. The independent foreign policy of Peru, which has earned it notable solidarity and support, is based on a deep respect for the sovereignty and self-determination of peoples, as well as on the conviction that, parallel with the development of our own nationalities a personality is shaping itself of which all the many Latin American nations partake. That awareness of, and hope for, our common historical destiny arises from our own experience, at times frustrating but always rich, that leads us to favor unity, intercommunication and world peace, to which Peru has lent, and will continue to lend, its unwavering support within the framework of its solidarity with the third world in the constant quest for a better, more just future.


===== Session 32 - 1977 =====
﻿132.	 Mr. President, it is a special pleasure for me. as Foreign Minister of the Revolutionary Government of Peru, to congratulate you on your election to the presidency of this session of the General Assembly since it has brought to that distinguished post a representative of Yugoslavia, a non-aligned country and a friend of Peru, and ensures that our discussions will take place under the most impartial leadership and in a manner commensurate with the international responsibility of the present time.
133.	The sure progress of our world Organization under the direction of Secretary-General Kurt Waldehim is an indication that the international community, despite undeniable difficulties, is approaching a consensus among the States which will make it possible for the principles of the Charter to be fully implemented in the foreseeable future. For that reason it is a great pleasure for me to welcome the Governments of Viet Nam and Djibouti, which now join the United Nations as new Members and which by their presence and efforts will contribute to the strengthening of peace.
134.	On this occasion afforded to me by the General Assembly I shall limit my statement to the minimum, taking into account the importance of stating the concerns, interests and position of my Government as regards present-day problems but at the same time recognizing the urgency of leading this debate to subjects which in my view may demand special priority and attention.
135.	It is with this idea and procedure in mind that I have distributed the complete text of my statement in which I have dealt appropriately with the items of interest and which I hope will be analysed thoroughly in the Foreign Ministries.
136.	Naturally, among the complex international topics my country must emphasize those which relate most directly to our international action by giving a detailed picture of our regional concerns and at the same time explaining the situation which obtains in Peru at the moment. This should not be construed as meaning that we are placing in another perspective problems of global import since we are also concerned about them.
137.	First of all, I believe it essential to face objectively the meagre results of the North-South dialogue because the conclusion of the Paris Conference on International Economic Co-operation seems to make an over-all solution impossible in a world which persists in its fragmentation despite its interdependent nature. It inevitable that in evaluating that forum for negotiation, to which Peru contributed its best efforts, the end result appears to be clearly negative. The responsibility for this rests with the industrialized countries which disregarded our substantive positions without proposing alternative structural formulas. Temporary proposals for financial relief do not constitute a significant factor in a process of negotiation which really extends to another level.
138.	On the other hand, we have before us an opportunity to follow new North-South co-ordinates, together with the continuous efforts in the economic debate, at the appropriate levels and in the forums in which decisions can be made, by implementing a comprehensive programme of disarmament under international supervision. This cannot be postponed further if we wish to remove the burden on the world economy represented by the arms race and to free new resources for use in international economic co-operation.
139.	As regards the law of the sea, I wish to say that when the United Nations Conference on this subject approaches its goal there will be pitfalls which may lead to a resounding failure. On the one hand there are attempts to change the jurisdiction of coastal States over the maritime areas adjacent to their coasts which are affected by the essentially codifying nature of work in this field. On the other hand there are the difficult negotiations on the sea-bed, which are politically explosive and methodologically bogged down and have been further hampered by threats of unilateral action or simply of abandonment, which jeopardizes what is a common heritage of mankind.
140.	From our vantage point and bearing in mind the most pressing objectives which the non-aligned developing countries agree in presenting as inescapable immediate responsibilities, we are concerned by the fact that, far from noting a promising climate in the most critical areas of international security, we see rather that there is little to give rise to optimism in southern Africa, Cyprus or the Middle East. My country has adopted clear and definite positions on these problems and continues to believe that the progress of negotiations must encompass the rights and interests of populations which have been oppressed and cast aside so as to obtain in each of the situations of conflict real changes which will make it possible not only to eliminate the risks for the maintenance of peace but also to develop the just and equitable formulas which are the essential condition of permanent solutions.
141.	The consistent objectives of Peruvian foreign policy have led my Government to Jake more effective action in terms of strengthening its close ties with the brother nations of Latin America, and at the level of Heads of State we have reaffirmed our permanent support for the just cause of Panama in claiming its national rights in the Canal Zone, and have reiterated the political commitment to strengthen the integration of the Andean Group. At the same time, at the highest level and in the same spirit of brotherhood, we have been acts to continue dealing with bilateral questions which are part of the constructive relations we have with neighbouring countries with a view to strengthening permanent bonds of peace and solidarity.
142.	The interest of Peru in promoting and strengthening regional unity is aimed at ensuring that Latin America will have increasing representation in future discussions for the purpose of establishing juster and sounder bases for a democratically established order among nations which will guarantee human rights and man's fulfilment.
143.	The idea supported by the Heads of State of the Andean Group at their meeting in Washington on 8 September last of holding a world conference on inflation is eloquent proof of the continuous concern of my country about the most pressing problems facing the international community.
!43. Peru has constantly expanded its integrationist interests because it believes that it is right and necessary to create bonds of unity in the continent and appropriate institutional forms as additional steps towards eradicating the disputes which still exist in the subcontinent. This action in favour of unity, especially in the context of the Bolivarian countries of the Andean Group, has just received, at the meeting of Presidents in Washington, decisive support, which augurs well for its success.
144.	In the same spirit of understanding which expresses our sincere desire for peace, the meeting recently held in Washington by the Presidents of Peru and Ecuador was particularly heartening. In that cordial encounter both Heads of State examined bilateral matters, especially the more delicate and important ones, without excluding any questions affecting relations between the two countries. The consideration of those questions is to proceed through friendly dialogue and direct contacts between Peru and Ecuador.
145.	In that same spirit, I should like to refer to the support repeatedly expressed by Peru of Bolivia's desire for an outlet to the sea. Peru responded to the initial approaches made to it by presenting a proposal which ensured Bolivia's access to the sea and at the same time included additional elements that, in its view, could lead to conditions guaranteeing peace, co-operation and development in the area where that access is to be provided. Peru does not pretend to view its proposal as a final and definitive formula, but rather as a basis for negotiations which my country believes should be inspired by a determination to achieve an over-all solution of the problems.
146.	At this session of the Assembly the Foreign Minister of Bolivia referred to Peru's consent to a possible solution. Our position is that, to be logical, Peru cannot consider giving its consent before it is provided with the basis of an agreement between Bolivia and Chile, which so far has not been arrived at. Once that is done contacts between Peru and Chile will be established in order to reach the prior agreement between the parties, as provided for in the Additional Protocol of 1929.
147.	This order of events, however, does not prevent the three countries from holding constructive talks with a view to facilitating a solution of the problem, bearing in mind their respective interests.
148.	Proof of that is the fact that the Foreign Ministers of Bolivia and Chile and myself held talks today in compliance with the solemn mandate given to us by our Presidents on 8 September in Washington, which will allow for continuing dialogue not only through the Foreign Ministers but also through special representatives who will smooth the way, constructively and dynamically for future meetings of Foreign Ministers. The press release resulting from that important meeting will be distributed to the Assembly tomorrow.
149.	I should like now to refer to the positive situation with respect to the Revolutionary Government today with its decision to accelerate the process which will in a short period of time lead to the establishment of complete democracy in Peru. Next year a constituent assembly will be held and a new constitution will be adopted which, with the transfer of power in 1980, will lead to a genuinely democratic political system and the enactment of rules which will ensure the permanent nature of the reforms carried out in my country.
150.	Those steps, which will include greater party involvement and greater participation of the masses in the national dialogue, indicate that the Government of Peru knows how to build a political system which guarantees essential economic and social rights together with full political freedom. Compliance with that will confirms and reaffirms the humanitarian designs of my Government because, as the President of Peru, General Francisco Morales Bermudez, has stated:
 If it is not to struggle for the majority, if it is not to reduce the number of those who are cast aside and exploited, if it is not to increase he participation and distribution of wealth and power, if in short it is not to create a more humane and just society, then politics and democracy have no meaning and simply become a squalid struggle to satisfy personal ambitions. 
151.	In the meantime, in the economic sector, my country has had to face adverse financial results which obstruct and jeopardize progress towards the advanced objectives of our development process now in full swing.
152.	The situation I have described is the result not only of the public expenditure undertaken by the State in assuming primary responsibility for the development process but more importantly of the negative effects of the unfair structure of the world's economy, which has become worse as a result of the recession and the inflationary crisis. Another fact that is decisive in this negative picture is the sudden drastic drop in the prices of our raw materials and our exported commodities, which has had an adverse effect on our balance of payments.
153.	Faced with these developments, my Government has decided to reduce public expenditure drastically, to promote domestic savings and to seek more realistic domestic price levels, without compromising the basic needs of the major sectors of the population, to whose improvement the process of change which the Revolutionary Government has initiated and is promoting is precisely directed. At the same time, my Government has decided to honour its external debt obligations, a practice which has constantly followed and one concerning which it hopes to find the necessary response in the financial community.
154.	In briefly describing the present situation in Peru I have not wished to. perform an obligatory right but rather to show the interrelationship which exists between our domestic objectives and our international position. This is due to the full observance of a course of conduct which stems from a fundamental philosophy, that is to say, from adherence to principles of consultation and dialogue at the domestic level and to negotiation, understanding and co-operation at the international level. Peru believes that in both spheres a review of conditions of inequality and their restructuring are necessary in order to achieve the domestic and international norms of conduct which correspond to the fundamental requirements of man.
 

===== Session 33 - 1978 =====
﻿200.	The presence of Latin America, in the person of the former Foreign Minister of Colombia, Indalecio Lievano, in the presidency of this thirty-third session of the General Assembly is a reason for special pleasure for my delegation. We see in this distinguished public figure of a brotherly and neighbourly nation of Peru an enlightened representative of the values which our region has contributed and continues to contribute to the international community. My delegation would offer to President Lievano and we would ask you, Sir, to convey these wishes to him—our assurances of our loyal and enthusiastic co-operation for the proper discharge of the important business of this major international forum.
201.	We also extend our greetings to Mr. Lazar Mojsov of Yugoslavia and express to him our appreciation of the manner in which he conducted a particularly difficult stage of the work of the General Assembly.
202.	The presidency of Mr. Lievano coincides with a moment of special urgency in the process of reordering international relations, and it is our fervent hope that at this time the United Nations, with the constantly efficient support of its Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, will combine dynamism and efficiency—which should properly be its attributes-in order to make possible an atmosphere of peace and co-operation which will distinguish our joint efforts.
203.	On the three occasions on which I have had the opportunity to address this forum of international consultation, I have described the permanent support given by Peru to the most noble efforts of the world Organization. This support is a natural reflection of the profound peaceful, diplomatic and pluralistic vocation which derives from our history and international position. The real autonomy of our foreign policy is fully expressed in the most pressing circumstances of the contemporary world, and therefore Peru reiterates its commitment to struggle, from a non-aligned political, conceptual and moral position for a world in which the democratization of international relations will pass from being a mere slogan to being an axiom determining diplomatic conduct.
204.	This is the significance of our full identification with the forces of liberation which are struggling to eliminate the stubborn remnants of colonialism, neo-colonialism and racial discrimination. It is also a reason for our efforts to contribute to the rule of order and international justice which my country has been pursuing for the attainment of a new international economic order, together with the establishment of an irreversible process of general and complete disarmament.
205.	These are decisive turning-points for our international future. In their specific and adequate concretisation lies the collective hope of a world which, although it is coming closer to universality in its relations—as the welcome admission of Solomon Islands to our Organization proves—and also closer to a certain level of ideo-political tolerance, has still not found the way suitably to harmonize its inevitable and necessary interdependence.
206.	I wish, with some anxiety, to refer to a subject which I find essential in the effort to achieve these aims which, although to some they may seem to be ideals or remote notions, are in fact an indispensable minimum if the present generation is to halt and reverse such destructive trends as those which are now eroding the very survival of our civilizations.
207.	To the danger inherent in the unbridled arms race, the massive squandering of resources, thoughtless pollution, hunger and poverty in the third world and the resurgence of repugnant forms of international and internal violence, the decline of standards, the apathy and premature disillusionment of our youth is added and superimposed the present stage of international dialogue in the economic sphere.
208.	For this reason my delegation shares with many others the frustration at what appears to be the definitive stagnation of the North-South dialogue, due to the de facto paralysis of the so-called Committee of the Whole, or the
Committee Established under General Assembly Resolution 32/174, which was set up by this Assembly precisely in order to provide a diplomatic framework capable of overcoming the failure of the Paris Conference on International Economic Co-operation.

209.	My country, which is passing through a situation of particular gravity, as I shall explain shortly, finds regrettable the absence within this sphere of international relations of a climate propitious to the efforts of precisely those countries which have risked most in order to set a suitable pace of integrated development. This permanent frustration is experienced in the deterioration of the prices of our exports, in the enormous magnitude of an external indebtedness which, far from facilitating the motive forces of our development, is distorting them even further, and is a transfer of technology and financial resources that is inadequate compared with our real needs. All this produces inevitable disagreements between the monetary organizations and our Governments, when it is a matter of deciding on the best terms for carrying out the adjustments needed because of the chronic balance-of-payments situation.
210.	In Peru we have overcome the stage of what was undoubtedly misunderstanding with these international organs thanks to a new flexibility of criteria, which, although positive, has been long in coming and has been achieved only at great cost to the country, a fact which must be regarded as a specific symptom of the present still inequitable world economic structure. Even if my country were not experiencing these delicate situations, we would with the same determination call for the establishment of a frank and effective dialogue. If the nations cannot cope with the most critical aspects of their proclaimed interdependence by means of civilized formulas for a constructive dialogue, how will it be possible to find a solution to the acute contradictions, inequalities and injustices which are characteristic of such independence and interdependence?
211.	Thus we make a new, urgent appeal to the developed States to find the political will to overcome the situation. Let us not accumulate new and more critical frustrations in a relationship which is already difficult. That would be of benefit to no one, and we must avoid them in the light of an interdependence which must be healthy and advantageous for all concerned. This Assembly is well aware of the importance of what is at stake, and that is why it has decided to bear its proper responsibility in this crucial aspect of international relations.
212.	In the opinion of my Government, the latest Conference of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries, recently held in Belgrade, has confirmed the vigour and relevance of the non-aligned movement as an alternative of enormous potential in the international sphere, but this reaffirmation of its unquestionable strength has not taken place without the emergence of certain problems and pressures which tend to recur sporadically within the non-aligned movement and which are attributable to the zeal for disturbance and division with which the poles of power seek to weaken its critical capacity, its conceptual and political autonomy and its non-aligned essence.
213.	We believe that human rights, on which there has been an intense debate at the international level in recent years, must be understood in their true dimension and their true breadth. Together with civil and political rights, recognition should be given to the urgent need to ensure economic, social and cultural human rights, without which, after all, it is impossible for man to enjoy the minimum conditions of life. Those rights include the right to work, housing, health, education, all of which are indispensable for the complete fulfilment of the human being.
214.	In keeping with this integrated view, my Government has ratified the International Covenants on Human Rights and the concomitant Optional Protocol [see resolution 2200 A (XXI)]. It has also ratified at national level the American Convention on Human Rights, also known as the Pact of San Jos6.  At the same time it continues firmly with its internal efforts at development and its struggle to establish a new international economic order.
215.	We cannot hide our. justified concern in view of the political situation that may be observed at the beginning of this session of the General Assembly in connexion with such delicate matters as Africa and the Middle East. We have seen in respect of southern Africa the important steps taken for the independence of Namibia on the occasion of the ninth special session, which was devoted to this matter, through a number of measures which still await final implementation and which, in the circumstances of which we are all aware, require for that implementation the persistent pressure of this Assembly and the international community as a whole, in particular that of the members of the Security Council, which has assumed this particular responsibility.
216.	My country hopes also that the independence of Zimbabwe will speedily and peacefully be achieved in keeping with the decision to be adopted by its people, with the effective participation of all sectors of the population.
217.	Peru, an ancient nation, a racial melting-pot, a country at a crossroad, profoundly rejects all forms of segregationist, discriminatory, racist and other practices which some nations carry out. In keeping with this sentiment, which is profoundly rooted in our national being, my Government has just adopted and incorporated into the legislation the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of. the Crime of Apartheid [resolution 3068 (XXVIII)] and we support and share in the efforts of the international community to eradicate this particularly aberrant form of discrimination and exploitation.
218.	Peru, which has been following with understandable interest and concern the problem of the Middle East and the Palestinian question, both of which have caused such grief, will always support the quest for peace with justice, within the spirit and letter of Security Council resolutions 242(1967) and 338(1973) and with respect for the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people.
219.	Similarly, we believe that the solution to the question of Cyprus must not continue to be delayed, and that the decisions of this Assembly and the Security Council must be implemented promptly.
220.	Within the framework of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, held in Geneva earlier this year, progress has been made which reaffirms the ambitious nature of the broad agreement envisaged by the international community to arrive at an agreement that will be satisfactory to all States. This effort deserves full support, which we have shown throughout the years in the forums where my country has spoken of the right of States to exploit the resources in the zones off their coasts. The advanced guard position taken by Peru in 1947 has now been seen to be consolidated and supported by the alignment of a large majority of nations in favour of this principle.
221.	On the other hand we cannot fail to express our profound concern and alarm about the imminent adoption of unilateral legislative measures on the exploitation of the natural resources of the sea-bed beyond national jurisdiction, measures which, would run counter to the principle that that zone and its resources are the common heritage of mankind. Such measures are clearly not in keeping with emerging international law.
222.	It is important to emphasize the new political assessment of the phenomenon of the arms race and the new path that was agreed on for negotiations on disarmament at the last special session of the General Assembly. This initial .step regrettably lacks specific details for immediate action but it includes an operative framework for handling this complex question and for its gradual solution by future decisions. As it has repeated in recent years, Peru is prepared to give its support to the objectives proposed for the forthcoming stages in the handling of this problem.
223.	At the regional level, it is satisfying to note the progress towards the political and juridical improvement of the regime for military denuclearisation of Latin America. The Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco), which incorporates this positive desire, is an example of what the regional political will can achieve in questions, of disarmament.
224.	While Latin America is in the van in the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone, it has renewed its efforts for the attainment of political agreements on the limitation of conventional weapons at the regional level. The pronouncement subscribed to on 22 June of this year by the Foreign Ministers signing the Declaration of Ayacucho, on the occasion of the last session of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States, offers the possibility that all the countries of the region will endorse those purposes, and opens up new ways for the implementation of this initiative taken by Peru.
225.	It is my intention to deal in some detail with certain essential aspects of Peru's present political circumstances, because I believe that it is necessary to place in their proper dimension certain phenomena which have been noted in my country in recent months.
226.	The position of Peru is that of a people in the process of attaining its civic integration, a people determined to attain at the same time and in a parallel manner two fundamental goals which will define its future character in the near future. Peru is attempting to establish definitively democracy as a stable, fruitful and efficient form of government. At the same time it is seeking to extricate its economic and financial system from one of the most profound crises in its history.
227.	Three years ago the second phase of the Revolutionary Government emerged as an institutional attempt to resolve certain fundamental problems of the process of transformation which was begun a decade ago. As is well known, this was an attempt to bring about complex and diverse changes in the economic and social structure, with a view to attaining a process of development with a lofty sense of social justice. The conduct of the process was not always perfectly attuned to growing national participation, but it undoubtedly proceeded from a majority sentiment in favour of change. The complex situation that had been inherited obliged the Government to specify the conceptual and nationalist autonomy which is at the heart of the Peruvian process, to narrow the gap between theory and practice and to readjust certain processes and consolidate basic reforms. All of this occurred, and is continuing, in the context of inexorable pressure on the economic and financial structure, brought about by internal factors, a certain lack of precision in the conduct of economic policy and the negative presence of external factors characteristic of the unjust structure of international economic relations, which caused an excess of expenditures over the amount produced and consequent enormous indebtedness.
228.	In the light of this reality, in a statement three years ago the Government stated the need to attain a national consensus on the basis of a responsible historic commitment by the armed forces and the civilian population, on which, to use the words of President Morales Bermudez, "the viability of Peru as a truly democratic society depends".
229.	Three years later, in strict fulfilment of the scheme for the democratic transfer of power in our country, in free elections and with exemplary popular participation, there has been elected a Constituent Assembly combining all the trends of political opinion in the country, with the delicate task of drafting, with full autonomy, the fundamental charter of the Republic, which will govern its system of civic life in the immediate future. This is the most important fact of Peru today, not only because it expresses the' hope of finding more stable channels for the future of the Republic but because it confirms that the people and the armed forces are imbued with an explicit democratic vocation, never expressed so overwhelmingly and trenchantly as today.
230.	That vocation and that hope mark a real and profound link between the Government and the majority sectors of the population. They are an expression of that link. The quest for a permanent understanding between the
Government and the Peruvian people now leads to the need to bring about an effective alliance in defence of the process of transfer to democratic forms of government and the necessary stability, threatened as they are by passions and fanaticism from both extremes of the political spectrum, which seek, in the shadow of a very grave economic and social crisis, to impose either a revolution inspired by totalitarianism, with very scanty chances of proving effective, or a return to a regime of privilege protected by systematic repression.
231.	In the past few weeks we have laid the basis for the stabilization of our financial situation. The Government is beginning to confront the second major objective of this phase of historic transition. After certain corrective measures, at the cost of enormous austerity, an agreement has been reached with IMF to put our finances on a sound footing for a period ending in 1980. At the same time, agreement has been reached with our creditors in the international financial community on a programme of restructuring our external debt to alleviate the amounts and deadlines during that same period. These acts, which are now well advanced and represent a realistic and technical scheme, imply an equitable distribution of the inevitable shortages and consequently a policy of financial health, meeting the criterion of social justice. They will make it possible not only to rescue the productive forces in our vast resources, which are now blunted by the grave recession, but to bring about a climate of confidence and stability necessary for a selective and pragmatic revival.
232.	It is therefore clear that it is not just the converging political and economic processes which will decide the cutting of the Gordian knot at this rather burdensome moment in Peru's destiny; much will depend on the awareness that may develop among the urban community of the grave and special nature of these two problems. If the urban population's reply is in accordance with the significance of these matters I have been trying to describe here, a positive outcome will soon emerge. That is why, as President Morales Bermudez has reiterated clearly, if the fundamental task of drafting the new constitution can be completed before the target year, it will be possible to advance the preparations and hold the general elections ahead of schedule, even before 1980. I think this solemn announcement is clear evidence that the outcome depends, in essence, on the predominant national will, which cannot fail to take into account the inescapable requirements of this critical moment in Peru's history.
233.	I believe there will prevail shortly in Peru an awareness of the need for shared sacrifice, in keeping with the lucidity and maturity of our ancient and noble people which it has demonstrated so often in the most critical moments of its turbulent yet rich history.
234.	This opens up a new era for our country, which is renewed and optimistic in its creative capacity—a capacity which has been demonstrated over thousands of years—and which is united yet pluralistic in its essence, and open, today as tomorrow, to friendship and links with all nations.
235.	Our subcontinent has reached a stage of maturity in which fruitful dialogue and the deliberate and responsible quest for rapprochement have acquired undoubted importance.
236.	Proof of this, and a reason for distinct satisfaction, is the negotiations which two sister countries, El Salvador and Honduras, have been conducting so suspiciously with, as mediator, a distinguished Peruvian, Mr. Jose Luis Bustamante Rivero, a former President of Peru and former President of the International Court of Justice. May I express here my most fervent desire that those negotiations will be successful and culminate in an instrument that will settle and overcome existing disagreements, as an expression of the desire for peace characteristic of Latin America.
237.	At the same time, I voice my firm hope that in those areas of the region now convulsed by turbulence the rule of peace will be restored under the auspices of freedom, justice and respect for human rights.
238.	Our country approaches its problems with a sense of destiny and with open and broad understanding. The signing of the Amazon Pact opens a new chapter and sets a precedent for future similar instruments which could lead to a qualitatively new step forward in an approach to the most delicate international matters from a positive viewpoint of realism and co-operation.
239.	At the same time, my country continues to be receptive to the quest for constructive solutions that would make it possible to remove elements of tension which still persist in other areas, through the proper channels and in accordance with the juridical traditions of my continent.
240.	In keeping with this approach and this tradition, Latin America will continue to contribute within this world framework to the attainment of the great objectives of the Organization, without blurring the, contours of its personality, which has been clearly outlined in the legal instruments in which the faith and hope of our own destiny are enshrined.




===== Session 34 - 1979 =====
﻿My delegation is pleased to convey to the representative of the United Republic of Tanzania its congratulations on his election to the presidency of this General Assembly and to congratulate his country, recalling that Peru attended its first non- aligned conference in Darussalam. In connexion with this election we also recall President Nyerere, a distinguished statesman and a living symbol of the highest African and universal virtues.
121.  We also wish to express our thanks to Mr. Indalecio Lievano, the noted jurist from the sister Republic of Colombia, for the way in which he conducted the business of the thirty-third session of the General Assembly.
122.	We also welcome a new Latin American State, Saint Lucia, to this Organization. Its admission brings us one step nearer our ideal of universality.
123.	The presence in this Assembly of the official delegation of the people of Nicaragua, represented by the Government of the Junta of National Reconstruction, fills Latin Americans with pride. Forty years of a regime shameful to Nicaragua and the conscience of Latin America have been left behind. Thanks to the struggle of the Sandinista Front and the whole people of Nicaragua, the way to freedom has been opened and today the hard task of building a future of dignity is beginning. It is up to the international community to provide effective and decided support. The Nicaraguan people have paid a high price for their freedom: human lives were lost, the economy was shattered, and the countryside was razed. Today a new era is beginning, an era of solidarity among all our countries, which have awaited and hailed the triumph of the Nicaraguan people, and this must urgently be translated into the financial and technical assistance needed by Nicaragua, without restrictions or provisos.
124.	The fall of the Somoza dictatorship means not only victory for the Nicaraguan people but it also means that Latin America has come face to face with its destiny of freedom. While it is true that the revolution in Nicaragua was an heroic undertaking on the part of its people, it is also true that the firmness of purpose shown by several countries in the region also contributed to some extent to that victory. Some saw to it that the inter-American system took the right decision at the right time.
125.	The countries of the Andean Group can say with legitimate pride that they helped to save an ethical tradition of the region. The initiative which they took, at a particularly difficult time, was tantamount to a commitment to justice.
126.	As a non-aligned country, Peru was pleased to take part in the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, recently held in Havana. There, together with many other small and medium-sized countries from all regions, we reaffirmed our basic commitment to the policy of non-alignment, with its fundamental principles and common aims.
127.	Our participation in such a conference and in the non-aligned movement as a whole is seen by us as the clear political option of a country which has fought and will fight to strengthen its independence and consolidate its sovereignty and to ensure respect for other principles which our non-aligned movement recognizes as being of universal validity, many of which are also contained in this Organization's Charter. It is the option of a country which supports the completion of the process of decolonization and which is opposed to the division of the world into spheres of influence and military blocs and which is opposed to any policy of colonialism, imperialism, neo-colonialism, racism, expansionism or hegemonism,
128.	Consequently, my country feels that at Havana the substance of our common cause was reaffirmed, when it was reiterated that regardless of political, economic or social systems, which constitute the non- aligned movement's essential plurality, the countries in the movement recognize that non-alignment is an independent, world-wide and creative factor in international relations and one which has as its aim and essential focus to make international relations more democratic, to set its members apart from military blocs and to get rid of these blocs in order to bring peace and security to all States.
129 Non-alignment has made a substantial contribution to the establishment at the international level of a new law of the sea. We are therefore convinced, and would like to believe that all other parties in the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea are also, of the importance of what is at stake. We have to be aware that never before has such a large joint effort been made by so many complex interests, that must nevertheless be essentially common ones. Just as there is one sea, so must there be one body to govern and regulate its peaceful use, the exploitation of its resources and its conservation. We are therefore worried about the fact that at this stage of the debate some Powers are still suggesting unilateral action which we would regard as threatening. However, we will not even entertain the idea of failure but will invoke the highest political vision of all States so that one single coherent system may regulate the essential undertakings. My country, which has been in the vanguard of this struggle, has the authority to call for respect for the sovereignty of the coastal States and a just agreement for the administration of what we have called the common heritage of mankind.
we are once again facing the challenge to the Organization that resides in the persistence of situations in various parts of the world which to a greater or lesser extent jeopardize international peace and security and have been critical for far too long. There are also various manifestations of policies of power which seem to be possible because of the ineffectiveness of the security systems and obvious short-comings in the capacity of the United Nations to preserve the universal application of its principles.
131.	Racist minority regimes in southern Africa persist in their defiance of the imperatives of nature and history. The international community, openly or covertly challenged, must not ease up its pressure or slacken its application of sanctions which, after so many violations, seem to be the only means of forcing changes, which we should like to be peaceful.
132.	The international community has clearly established guidelines for the changes required to resolve the critical situation in the Middle East. We are aware that the process of the interrelationship of States in that very important area has invariably and tragically led to confrontation and war. The effective exercise of the rights of the Palestinian people, which we firmly support, and respect for the sovereignty of all the States of the region are central elements of one form of peaceful coexistence and co-operation which we recognize as pressing.
133.	In Cyprus, in South-East Asia, in regions of Africa and in other parts of the world conflict and war are presenting us with the daily disasters of invasion, occupation, the displacement of people as refugees, suffering and death. What peace are we talking about when these circumstances prevail?
134.	When the principles and provisions of our Charter are being violated or distorted and the will, if any, to deal with situations calling urgently for action seems not to exist, we must agree that there is real danger in our times.
135.	It is almost routine to deplore the growth of military expenditures and the continued acceleration of the arms race, which, while to some extent it may give a transitory sense of security, has created a situation which is not satisfactory to anyone but rather increases the risk for all. For our part, at this stage, again we have to say that we do not all have the same responsibilities, for not all of us subject mankind as a whole to the same threats. We should like to think that some effective steps are being taken or at least that negotiations are under way to check or at least slow down the arms race, which so often originates in and is promoted from central countries expanding outward and thus involving every part of the world in a dynamic process which our countries have not created but the effects of which we cannot fail to perceive.
136.	Latin America, while not being an area of the developing world that devotes most resources to military acquisitions, has made some responsible efforts to find common criteria to control and limit military expenditures. The Declaration of Ayacucho, tripartite meetings and meetings of Andean countries, among others, have been accepted in Peru as a far-sighted driving force. Unfortunately, progress has been limited. Despite this we believe that Latin America can also in this complex problem take the lead, advocating regional agreement which, in view of the urgency and realism of the case, should lay the basis for a joint policy.
137.	In inverse proportion to the growth of arms, the international effort for development shows signs of slowing down and indeed stagnating. After very many conferences and meetings dealing with political and technical aspects, with small or universal participation, ranging from the sectorial to the world-wide, we have time and again seen the distressing frustration of the developing countries as a constant factor. It is all the more distressing when it is clear that very seldom before has mankind as a whole longed as deeply as now for peace, stability, social justice and development. We believe that this should be a cause for thorough consideration which would make it possible to throw light on new paths and possibilities and generate a new dynamic to resolve these conflicts and contradictions, and in this last part of the second millennium of our era give all the peoples of the earth the hope that the harsh lessons of history have not been in vain.
138.	In a few days we shall have the opportunity of listening to His Holiness John Paul II. While we shall hear in it the noble and authoritative words of the representative of the Catholic world, we also must remember that with him comes the memory of one whose name he took, who gave the name of peace to the development of peoples and who showed in its dramatic starkness the paradoxical contradiction between poverty and justice.
139.	The problem of development comes up periodically and in varying degrees of intensity for consideration by States Members of the United Nations. Nevertheless, the Organization has shown itself to be incapable of dealing with the problem and finding a solution in terms that would provide a reasonable expectation of success.
140.	Over a period of many years we have been building a broad complex of ideas, items and proposals, believing that through those we could find a solution. The facts have shown that we were wrong. It seems clearer every day that the problem lies not only in the will of States to do this but in the approach taken to development and the way it is to be discussed in international bodies.
141.	The continuing failure of the economic negotiations carried out since the General Assembly in 1974 adopted the Declaration and Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order shows the lack of political will of the developed nations to adopt measures in the right direction, and also it seems that we as developing countries have been following a mistaken strategy in trying to bring about a fundamental change in the existing structure of international economic relations.
142.	We therefore have to give consideration to the question of devising new ways, on the one hand, of strengthening co-operation among developing countries, with a view to changing the present trend, which reinforces the dependence of the periphery on the centre, and, on the other hand, of strengthening the negotiating power of our countries vis-a-vis the developed nations. This is not the time to engage in repeated, futile complaints against the prevailing if unjust international order; rather it is the time to take decisions to change the terms of these relationships. We must offset the traditional attitude of obtaining minor concessions from the industrialized nations by our firm proposals to try to break new ground, to escape the trap of our present relationships with the industrialized countries and the characteristics of the negotiating process in which we have become involved.
143.	What is called for is a qualitative change in our policies in order to effect a radical modification of the ties of dependency that have kept our economic development and social life subordinate to the interests and policies of the industrialized nations. This change must of necessity entail a stage during which we must reject the development models of the "transnationalized States", whose styles of life and of consumption are based on a certain level of income and on distribution mechanisms that are the product of an historic process we cannot emulate.
144.	Therefore, that development strategy not only must be designed to create a new international economic order, but must be oriented, in turn, towards a search for new models appropriate to our own societies. These new models must enable us to deal with the fundamental aspirations of the population as a whole, ensuring democratic participation by all sectors of society in setting common objectives and selecting the appropriate means of achieving them. We must seek change on the basis, not of the models the large, industrialized countries offer us in an attempt to extend their systems to our nations, but of models designed to form new ties that will enable us to preserve our own true identity and to provide for our own protection as distinct and free societies in the future.
145.	It is a question of discovering whether the multiplicity of statements and regulations agreed to over the last few years contain any option suited to our own development, or whether we must repetitively imitate experiments that emerge from a history that differs from our own because the role we have had to play in the world's economic system was different.
146.	This does not mean that we need seek Utopian autarkies in our development models or a total break with the industrialized world. Today, in any case, there is an obvious interrelationship that has altered the traditional form of dependency. Instead, we must undertake our own development on the basis of an internal effort to define objectives and basically national priorities, and avoid attempts to force us into roles that would simply accentuate the inequalities and contradictions within our societies.
147.	This is important, for if present trends are not corrected, we will continue to mortgage our economic and social development projects through international finance and trade mechanisms that are controlled by the industrialized nations. The inevitable result will be that by the year 2000, the trade deficit of the developing countries will amount to more than $200 billion to the industrialized countries, whereas our own trade will have increased by 1 per cent. In other words, we shall continue to increase our debt to the industrialized Powers in order to cover the deficit we already have with them.
148. In light of this prospect, we may well be fostering development by means of machinery that will not ensure a proper distribution of real income; with an inflated gross national product that will conceal immense social inequities; with a process of industrialization either deficient or based on industries exported by the developed nations because they are not competitive enough or because they are a serious threat to the environment; with outdated technical processes or pro-cesses artificially incorporated into our system of production; with a system of popular education that is filled with short-comings and is highly wasteful; and, lastly, with an agricultural production based on exports that in turn perpetuate chronic food shortages. In short, it will be a development that is more apparent than real, and one that is in conflict with the needs of the peoples and with the social dimension of human rights.
149. For these reasons and many others which I do not feel I should dwell on now, we must question the very bases on which current international development planning is founded. It is our firm belief that, instead of meeting in august and debilitating bodies to consider the problems of development and co-operation with the same worn-out view that has prevailed in recent years, we should rather come together in a serious frame of mind, issuing at the outset a firm "No," to debate the current concept of development and its international treatment. We should attempt to ensure that through this joint exercise we shall arrive at an integral redefinition of the problem and hence a possible way of contributing to the true establishment of an economic and political order aimed at creating a balance and symmetry in international relations, based on a new perspective seeking to reconcile legitimate interests and the demands of justice. This attempt to conceptualize and articulate a new mode of conduct for the developing countries must go hand in hand with an internal effort made by those countries to regroup their forces; it must emphasize to the full the opportunities that exist for co-operation among them, thereby increasing their negotiating capacity. We must clearly set forth the true dimension of the development problem and the possibilities of its being successfully dealt with on the international level by employing a new viewpoint that will be essentially political in nature and will re-evaluate the contribution of the developing world to world peace and security at its proper weight and significance.
150. For that enormous task, as we approach a new decade, we feel that—once shorn of the myths woven round it by the European imagination—Latin America has something valuable to offer in the present international debate. The experience of Latin America, enriched by years of political vicissitudes and various attempts at integration, is a meaningful one, and should facilitate its participation in dealing with the problems of our time. It is not mere chance that our region offers such a panorama of cultural diversity, of permanent struggle to affirm its own identity, of a development marked by the imbalances deriving from the international division of labour imposed upon the world by the great Powers. Our extremely rich variety of situations and experiences contains the elements that the region must employ in setting up a new and dynamic relationship with other areas of the world.
151.	Peru is convinced that, once shorn of some of its illusions, Latin America is finding itself through a precise definition of its own interests and its own institutional machinery. The clear perception of the distinct reality that is our continent will guarantee a more creative participation with the rest of the third world in efforts to bring about a new international order embodying a structure of justice.
152.	Hence, in the light of the experience of recent years and in view of the perspectives open to the Latin American region, and particularly the stimulating presence of the Andean Group, we feel that it is necessary to have the militant participation of Latin American social democracy joined in common cause with the various areas of the third world in the international life of our time. Although third-world countries act on the assumption that democracy is the political organizing pro-cess that best suits their interests, it is clear that they should not adopt exclusively formalist and liberal concepts of this. These have recently turned into unstable appendages of the large Western Powers. Without losing its essential qualities, the democratic concept must be effectively adapted to the particular characteristics of the developing countries, and it must at the same time be given the revolutionary impetus needed to enable it to carry out militant and creative activity at the international level. Therefore Latin America must without doubt make the demands of the third world its own. At times, this attitude has led to inevitable confrontations with other States which, while equally democratic, have a level of development that places them in the industrialized world and consequently puts them in a position to defend interests which are not those of the developing world. The representative, democracies of the third world must therefore accept the challenge of opposing to those interests their own, and of giving the internal social substance of their own democratic fife the international projection that will, of necessity, involve them in differences with the industrialized democratic Powers to which they are linked by a thin umbilical cord of political concepts, common in origin but divergent in their present objectives.
153.	We feel that the Latin American democracies— those already in existence and solidly established, those emerging and being established, and those that we expect to be set up in the near future—all have to embark on a new course of shared international responsibility that is at once a challenge and a stimulus that can give Latin America and other democracies in the developing world a new and vigorous role in building the international society of the future.
154.	With the foregoing, we are trying to provide the framework for the possible organic establishment in the developing world of an alternative that will at one and the same time be in competition with others of a different ideological stamp and open to a convergence of views and co-operation. We are talking about social representative democracies of the third world, revolutionary democracies under the banner of change and participation aiming at radical transformation of sclerotic structures at the national level and at radical change in the unjust international order, which is not moral and which has, tragically, been shown to cause pain and war and not to bring progress and peace.
155.	In the last 10 years Peru has tried to bring all its efforts and concern to bear on this problem. In order to do so we have established a foreign policy that we feel is in keeping with our capabilities and furthers our claims. This policy is based on the clear idea that a country that is not a great Power but rather a small one can and rightly must boldly grapple with the problems of its time. We believe that we can only make history by taking part in it. The major legitimate and traditional foreign problems of a State must in no way distance or isolate a country at the international level from the vast and complex scheme of things which in the final analysis, for better or worse, it shares with the rest of the world.
156.	In keeping with this feeling, in due time my country took the heady risk of taking part as far as possible in endeavours to build a better world, although that might involve inevitable confrontations in some instances and blind incomprehension in others. But we persevered, and we believe that Peru's foreign policy as made positive and useful contributions both to the political strengthening of the third-world nations and to the reworking of ideological frameworks available to the under-developed countries.
157.	It is in this spirit that we have made this statement. We all have an obligation and a commitment in this world Organization. In this instance, we have sought to contribute to the debate by touching on some of the problems considered in this body.
158.	We are drawing close to the decade of the 1980s. We must not be shackled by previous decades and strategies. We must shake off labels and approaches which claim to save by their very wording. We all know that the problem is greater and more difficult than that, and that we shall not resolve it by decking it out in clothing borrowed from the international paraphernalia of the past. Let us modestly but without concessions seek a new language to express old aspirations that were not satisfied. For this arduous creative labour, Peru offers its unreserved will to work on the basis of a long tradition of effort shared in solidarity, which has enabled the former inhabitants of its territory to eliminate hunger and plunder and to create a just community structure.


===== Session 35 - 1980 =====
﻿117. Mr. President, I should like to express to you the sincere congratulations of the delegation of Peru on your election to preside over our work during the thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly. Your unanimous election represents a well-deserved tribute to you and to your qualities as an experienced international diplomatic; at the same time, it is a tribute to the people and Government of the Federal Republic of Germany, with which my country, Peru, maintains special bonds of friendship which I am very pleased to confirm today.
118.	I also wish to express our appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Salim of the United Republic of Tanzania, who, in exercising his functions, again displayed his qualities as a diplomat and statesman which we all admire.
119.	The delegation of Peru is pleased to greet and welcome two new States on their entry into the United Nations: the Republic of Zimbabwe, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Their admission as Members brings our Organization closer to its aim of universality.
120.	On 28 July last, the people of Peru elevated to the office of constitutional President of the Republic, with the highest number of votes ever recorded in the history of our country, the same Head of State whose term of office in government had been unlawfully interrupted 12 years earlier. The signal honour conferred on architect Fernando Beiaunde Terry acquires particular significance because it was the popular masses, both rural and urban, that a revolutionary process claimed to represent, which today contributed with renewed vigour to this overwhelming vote. Moreover, it was the armed forces that deposed President Beiaunde in 1968 and which now, on the basis of the sovereign mandate of the nation, handed over power in an act of unquestionable historical reparation to our Head of State.
121.	The experience which Peru lived through during that time became a subject of examination and expectation throughout the world and is a lesson which should not go unnoticed in this universal forum. It proves that the desire to move forward in search of social justice, in countries such as ours, does not come from the imposition of ideological conceptions which claim arbitrarily to interpret collective anxieties and satisfy collective needs. It shows that, however good intentions may be, the will of the people must be ascertained directly. This has proved once again that, without freedom, control and preservation of the national interest are relaxed and the wellbeing of the vast majority becomes a mere dream. The struggle for justice and the quest for egalitarian values must go hand in hand with an affirmation of freedom and must be reconciled with the full enjoyment of human rights.
122.	The far-reaching nature of the change of government in my country has been recognized by the international community, which was represented by important Heads of State and special missions. At this time, I should like again to express our appreciation to those countries which, by their presence, expressed their support and best wishes for the prosperity and progress of our people.
123.	The exemplary elections, in which my country showed singular maturity, meant not only the triumph of Accion Popular, a political party which represents a renewed state of the collective consciousness of the Peruvian people; they also meant the affirmation of a hope. Hence the solemn commitment of the members of the constitutional Government to preserve freedom, respect human rights and build a genuinely just society.
124.	We realize that in a country such as ours, divided socioeconomically into one sector belonging to the economic process and another very large sector outside that process, a sector deprived of access to the legitimate standards of wellbeing and whose income is below the subsistence level, the priority of the State must be directed, as we are now determined to ensure, towards laying down policies representing an equitable distribution of wealth. That means that we must devise an instrument for a development strategy that has profound social significance, one that will give the underprivileged peoples encouragement and support in effectively improving their standards of living.
125.	An ancestral Peruvian tradition gives us very important assistance in the achievement of these objectives: I refer to voluntary labour, which President Beiaunde has called popular cooperation.
126.	Much of the greatness of Peru is due to popular cooperation. Popular cooperation brought about Machu Picchu, and cathedrals were raised on the walls of Inca temples. Popular cooperation has meant that the peoples of the hillsides have built and continue to build schools, bridges and roads, thus offsetting by their efforts the forgetfulness of Governments. Therefore, and as proof of one of the ideological bases of the new regime, the hereditary civic force that naturally exists in the minds of our people is now being activated to offer communities a mechanism of their own for their development.
127.	Popular cooperation, having become an institutionalized priority programme, because of its multiplying effect, constitutes the best response in countries such as ours to the challenge presented by limited financial resources and the magnitude of the demand for an infrastructure to achieve the social and economic integral rehabilitation of our nation.
128.	While peoples such as that of Peru tenaciously affirm their democratic ideals, they also affirm their hope to live in a more just world. Peace and development are not and cannot be the privileges of minorities, but are rights—or, to use an expression dear to the United Nations, they should be the common heritage of mankind.
129.	I wished to bring these thoughts to the Assembly to emphasize the deep-rooted will of the new Government of Peru to build an integral democracy as an inspiration and as a way of life.
130.	With the initiation of the present administration, the new political Constitution of the Republic has entered into force. It guarantees to all Peruvians enjoyment of all their rights and fundamental freedoms without discrimination for reasons of politics, creed, race or sex.
131.	Along with the executive power emanating from the popular will, there has been established legislative power in which all national political tendencies are represented. Next November the country will freely elect local governments, thus fully consolidating the return to democracy in Peru.
132.	It is clear that, after a lengthy attempt at authoritarian politics that failed to achieve the targets set because it did not take popular feelings into account, we Peruvians have chosen political development without tutelage. We are regaining our trust that that alternative is essential to sustained and effective economic growth and true democracy.
133.	The foreign policy of the Government of President Belaunde Terry will be marked by respect for the legal norms that govern peaceful coexistence among nations. Full observance of the principle of non-intervention, respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, self-determination and compliance with international treaties are the bases of all international legal order, to which Peru adheres.
134.	While our foreign policy will seek to broaden Peru's ties so that interchange at various levels will be more universal and will offer reciprocal benefits, our priority will be to strengthen our links with the countries of the region by actively participating in the raising of Latin America's self-confidence as the best means of achieving its continuous progress.
135.	The great importance we attach to the strengthening of our friendly relations with neighbouring countries will be reflected in our foreign policy, and here we are pleased to reiterate the permanent desire of Peru to have fraternal relations and to promote cooperation and joint respect for national sovereignty.
136.	We consider integration to be a means of raising the quality of life of our people and affirming our independence. Accordingly, we wish to contribute to the improvement of the Andean Group so that it may comply more effectively with the deadlines and targets set for the progressive integration of participating nations and promote the joint development of Latin America.
137.	At the recent meeting of the Heads of State of the Andean countries at Riobamba, Ecuador, it was possible to reaffirm the democratic will of the members of the Group and their firm intention to observe human rights, it being assumed that the principle of non-intervention cannot be separated from that of the self-determination of peoples.
138.	In the certainty that integration constitutes the main task of Latin American solidarity, the countries of the Andean Group actively participated in the negotiations to establish the Latin American Integration Associations task that reaffirms the ancient desire of our peoples to become integrated within a vast joint plan in order to achieve the establishment of a common market.
139.	We consider that the development of our continent must be focused from a global perspective, covering, in addition to this Andean effort, the basins of the Amazon and the Rio de la Plata and, in a parallel and progressive manner, the marginal jungle road, a continental colonizing plan that may become the backbone or linkage between those schemes.
140.	The coming into being of the Latin American Economic System complements the affirmation of our regional personality and opens up new perspectives for the development of our own potential. We are certain that the presence of the Latin American Economic System as an observer at this session of the General Assembly will contribute to the strengthening of the role that Latin America now plays in the concert of nations.
141.	Our efforts for the integration of Latin America must lead to the establishment of effective cooperation with all the other regions.
142.	We reaffirm our solidarity of interests and aspirations with the peoples of the third world, which are equally committed to the hard task of economic and social development.
143.	In his message to the nation on the inauguration of his Government, President Belaunde confirmed Peru's identity as a nonaligned country imbued with its original principles of independent choice in the power struggles of the great Powers. We believe that it is precisely now—when certain aspects of international life that seemed to have been superseded are rising to the surface once again—that it is the duty of nonalignment to contribute to the irrevocable aspirations to peace, justice and development.
144.	At this time my Government wishes to pay a well-deserved tribute to President Tito, who inspired the nonaligned movement, who visited Peru during the previous Government of President Belaunde and whose absence is felt not only by his own people but also by all the countries of the third world which admired his adroit leadership.
145.	Peru reiterates its intention to contribute to clarifying and solving international problems, the interrelationship and implications of which at the present time affect the universal community. The gravity of some of these problems arouses the concern of peoples. We realize that many international problems not only have not been solved but have in fact become more serious, while other equally critical ones have arisen. The international scene appears thus burdened with uncertainties and dangers.
146.	Pressure against medium sized and small States persists. Various forms of coercion continue to be used as instruments of foreign policy. There are still serious obstacles to the decolonization process because some peoples are not yet able to exercise their right to self-determination, and discriminatory practices against social, religious and ethnic minorities are current in various regions.
147.	Statements and promises notwithstanding, the arms race is accelerating in scope, speed and magnitude and is becoming increasingly difficult to endure and to understand. An excessive expenditure of billions of dollars, concentrated in a few countries, permits the continued expansion of the arms industry. This sum of money would be enough for an immediate solution of the most urgent problems of education, health and food which the developing world is suffering today.
148.	Weapons are daily becoming more sophisticated, lethal and difficult to control. The threat of a nuclear war has not been dispelled and the deadlines for taking decisions to control these dangers are coming dramatically closer. Along with this, conventional armaments continue to grow impressively, weighing ominously on the economies of the developing countries which, by a notable paradox, contribute to the high cost of the research and development of these weapons.
149.	In the Middle East, confrontation has not yet been overcome and concerted action for peace appears to have been postponed. In south-eastern Asia and central Asia, foreign troops continue to subjugate independent States. In Cyprus, in disregard of the decisions of this Assembly, foreign occupation continues. And in Namibia the colonizing Power resists accession by that Territory to independence.
150.	We are likewise discouraged by the results of efforts to establish a new economic order in the world consonant with the desire finally to achieve a minimum level of justice compatible with the quality of human life. My country cannot understand how in the third millennium of our era we can continue on the same bases which today characterize the spectre of severe international economic crisis, which appears to be a reflection of the desire to maintain or expand political power or the domination of the few over the many.
151.	The interdependence that is often referred to cannot be a type of relationship aimed at sustaining, on the one hand, the prosperity of the few and, on the other hand, the alienation and poverty of impressive majorities. Interdependence is a concept which requires a new type of economic relation, a more balanced one, which vigorously promotes development.
152.	We believe that the recent failure of the eleventh special session of the General Assembly, devoted to economic questions, means that we are at a crossroads. Either we continue with this absence of communication and make a reality of the gloomy prospects which some have forecast for the year 2000 or we rid ourselves of prejudices and sterile dogmatism and face the joint task of building a new international economic structure.
153.	It must be very clear that when we the developing countries make claims before the industrialized world— whatever might be the economic or political affiliation of its members—it is not because we would threaten the stability of that world. We simply hope that they will realize the need for an equitable and concerted solution of the structural problems which afflict us.
154.	It is evident that in the last decades the development of science and technology has reached unexpected levels. But this development should have purely positive implications. Nevertheless, it is noteworthy that in many areas, particularly in agriculture, education and health, scientific and technological achievements are at odds with the possibility of their universal application for the social good.
155.	The population explosion and the shortage of food, the undue use and the depletion of non-renewable sources of energy and the break in ecological balances are problems which affect the future of mankind, problems on whose solution depends the very survival of the species.
156.	If we bear in mind that we are now seeing a re-evaluation of ideologies which were previously considered to be rigid and inflexible and a review of political practices as part of an effort by all nations increasingly to adapt them to their own realities, we may well wonder whether the time has not conic to seek new and more imaginative premises for an effective solution to the questions put to us by the world of tomorrow.
157.	Given this scenario of questions and uncertainties, we cannot fail to recognize certain facts which prove that, despite all the difficulties, the perseverance of the universal concerted will has produced some significant achievements.
158.	The eradication of smallpox announced by WHO at the end of 1979 represents the first case in history in which a scourge of mankind, because of scientific and technological progress, has been eliminated from the face of the earth.
159.	We have great hopes that the positive results achieved so far by the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea will come to fruition with the signing of a world convention which will establish a new legal order for the use and exploitation of seas and oceans. That convention, conceived as an instrument of justice, will promote cooperation and the development and welfare of all nations.
160.	For us Peruvians, it is particularly gratifying to note that the international community has finally accepted the validity of the argument in favour of the 200 mile limit, which has been defended for more than 30 years by Peru and the South Pacific system, with the support of other countries of Latin America and of the third world. Acceptance of this concept and recognition of the seabed as the common heritage of mankind have constituted a contribution by the developing world to an enrichment of international law.
161.	The search for new premises and solutions for the problems I have referred to will not be successful within a short time. Therefore we must continue to make use of the present forms of international coordination.
162.	The constitutional Government of Peru respects the principles of the United Nations Charter and the United Nations resolutions. Our major efforts are directed towards full compliance with the Charter, and we shall continue to support any initiative to make more democratic and effective the various bodies constituting that great world body.
163.	In this Assembly, the Disarmament Commission and the Committee on Disarmament, my country has contributed to dealing with the important subject of disarmament, and it participated in the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Disarmament Decade.  We appeal to the great Powers to assist in bringing the negotiations to a satisfactory conclusion and thus to initiate within a short space of time an era of peace and cooperation on the basis of shared responsibility.
164.	Peru considers that it is necessary to accelerate the nuclear disarmament negotiations among the great Powers and will continue to promote the already advanced efforts to establish the status of Latin America as a zone effectively free of nuclear weapons.
165.	In accordance with the principles of international law and within the context of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, we support the opening of a dialogue on an integral and lasting solution of the problems of the Middle East. Peru supports all efforts undertaken by the international community and this Assembly to bring about a resolution of those conflicts, with respect for the sovereign equality of all the States of that region, a guarantee of a secure life in peace and the recognition of the rights of the Palestinian people.
166.	My country opposes policies of racial discrimination and the continuance of colonial and neo-colonial systems. As free men, we cannot accept the continued existence of shameful forms of social domination.
167.	The Government of Peru ardently hopes that in Cyprus, central Asia and south-eastern Asia, where there are armed conflicts, these will be resolved by peaceful means and in a spirit of solidarity and mutual respect.
168.	At this time, when my country is entering a stage in which the people determines its destiny, we reaffirm our conviction that the achievement of social justice is indissoluably linked to the exercise of political democracy and respect for human rights.
169.	Vast, complex and urgent, as in any developing country, are the problems and tasks that my Government must face. We cannot expect to resolve them in a short time, because we are aware of our limitations, but with the people of Peru we are committed to building a future of prosperity and equality, and we know full well that, as has been recognized by the United Nations, the primary responsibility for development lies with us.
170.	We are convinced that the objectives we pursue internally must be in harmony with external goals, because we are part of a diversified but interdependent world which requires genuine international cooperation.
171.	Accordingly, my Government hopes that at its thirty fifth session the General Assembly will bring about effective progress towards the achievement of the goal, so often proclaimed, of a universal community and a full life, in peace and justice.


===== Session 36 - 1981 =====
 I am pleased to express the cordial congratulations of the delegation of Peru to our President on his election to the presidency of the thirty--sixth session of the General Assembly. His election is a well-deserved tribute to him and to his standing as an experienced diplomat and internationalist.
131.	I also wish to express my delegation's appreciation to his distinguished predecessor, Mr. Riidiger von Wechmar, of the Federal Republic of Germany, who carried out the delicate functions of President with undeniable brilliance both within and outside this hall.
132.	Peru wishes to extend a welcome to the Republic of Vanuatu. Because of its location in the Pacific Ocean, it is very close to our interests, and we welcome it to the United Nations in the conviction that it will contribute effectively to the work of the Organization.
133>. It is a special satisfaction for me to speak to this Assembly as Belize attains independence. I extend my warmest congratulations to that new State in Latin America.
134.	I wish also to express the admiration and appreciation of the Government of Peru to Mr. Kurt Waidheim, Secretary General of the United Nations, who for 10 years has rendered distinguished service to the cause of peace by his personal efforts, with diplomatic skill that deserves a tribute from our Organization.
135.	The gathering here each year of representatives from all the States Members of the Organization gives us an opportunity to take stock of the international situation and, which is even more important, to realize our responsibilities with regard to the preservation of peace and the attainment of prosperity for all our peoples.
136.	Over the past year two realities have, emerged with increased clarity on the international scene. On the one hand, the gradual expansion of universal ideo-political tendencies has given rise to a lively reaction and produced a new clash between different concepts of the way to achieve the wellbeing of the community. Thus international tension has increased and the competition for military supremacy has aggravated and deepened our fears and concerns.
137.	On the other hand, the manner in which the countries of the third world have asserted their positions at the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea has in many instances convinced others of the justice of their views, which were at first unacceptable to the industrialized nations. This is clear demonstration of the enormous potential of the developing countries if they can stand together and apply their goodwill to coordination and action.
138.	This example gives a glimmer of hope in the still slow progress towards the attainment of a new international order. However, we believe that that is not the only historical task falling on the developing countries. There is now a growing realization that our demands to the developed countries do not reflect, enmity or mean confrontation; it is also true that, in the struggle for world hegemony, to which we have alluded, there is no reason why the developing countries need take sides in this struggle, which we had thought two decades ago was a thing of the past.
139.	This force which we are beginning to appreciate and which has been brought about by the convergence of the developing countries could well have a historic destiny here at the United Nations, that of preventing a suicidal conflagration and becoming the prime guarantor of peace.
140.	The active promotion of peaceful coexistence is the great undertaking of the third world at the present time.
141.	We reported in the previous session of the Assembly [5th meeting] on the meaning and importance of the assumption of the constitutional presidency by Mr. Fernando Belaunde Terry. We said that we had undertaken a solemn commitment to preserve freedom, respect human rights and work relentlessly for the building of a truly just society.
142.	Now that the first year of that Government has passed we can quote with legitimate satisfaction what the President of Peru has said: "Today in Peru the Constitution prevails, the law rules and freedom reigns in the entire Republic."	''
143.	New laws covering the agriculture, livestock, petroleum and mines are giving renewed vigor to the exploitation of the natural resources of Peru. The creation of the bank for the procurement of building and housing materials and the institution of social mortgages, with subsidized interest rates, have given creative momentum to a vast housing plan which at the present time, counting units under construction and those already completed, covers more than 10,000 housing units at moderate rents.
144.	An energetic beginning has been made on lengthening roads, repairing stretches of highway and building new roads along the PanAmerican highway on the coast and along the mountains and adjacent forest areas all of which has made it possible for the growing Peruvian population to establish new settlements with a view to the proper utilization of the national territory.
145.	The cumulative effect of the people's cooperation and voluntary work by the communities, with the technical advice of the State, which is internationally considered to be the most efficient way of using intermediate technology, is already bearing fruit among the most remote and the poorest peoples, thanks to the 150 provincial centers.
146.	We are carrying out this immense task while making every effort to improve the economy, which is still affected by the crisis we are facing and by the current world recession and inflation.
147.	We promised freedom of expression and we have altered the situation which we found and kept our word. Today in Peru national newspapers, television channels and radio stations have all been put in the hands of their rightful owners, thus giving the Peruvian people the right to the free interplay of opinions and ideas.
148.	We promised genuine municipal elections, and on 23 November 1980 such elections were held throughout the country.
149.	We know full well that to live in freedom and complete democracy is no easy undertaking. But what can enhance the prestige of a Government and the majority political party sustaining it more than respect for the representation and the criticism of all the political sectors of the country without exception? That is what is happening today in our country.
150.	Full respect for human rights and a sincere attempt to achieve social justice and progress are the best safeguards against any attempt to promote violence and social chaos. They are also the best guarantees of the stability of the democratic! system which today, fortunately, has been established thanks to the express will of the Peruvian people.
151.	Peru's foreign policy is founded on consistent adherence to and respect for the principles on which international legal order rests. Our policy is pursued in harmony with our position in the South American continent and our desire to promote cooperation and integration in the Andean, Amazonian and Pacific subregions, with our wish to establish links with all countries at the regional, hemispheric and intercontinental levels; it is in keeping with our status as developing countries bound together with all the countries of the third world, and in line with our status as an authentically independent nonaligned country.
152.	We are pleased that we have achieved the best possible relations with all neighboring countries, which guarantees not only fraternal links but also the effective attainment of our common objectives, namely, cooperation for development with respect for our national sovereignties.
153.	The task of promoting integration, which has been set forth in the Constitution of the State, has been vigorously assumed by the Government of Peru. We have contributed to a thorough analysis of the Cartegena Agreement and to making the various positions more realistic, thus paving the way for the revival of the most ambitious joint effort thus far to realize Bolivar's desire for integration.
154.	We are pleased that, in accordance with the strict timetable for the carrying out of those tasks, early in September a meeting of the Commission of the Cartagena Agreement was held in Bogota at which the Ministers of Industry and Integration took fruitful decisions.
155.	During this meeting effective steps were taken to carry out the Treaty for Amazonian Cooperation, and early this month in' Lima the first technical meeting took place with the participation of all member States. That was a preliminary step before the forthcoming meeting of the Council on the Amazon.
156.	Aware that without physical links any efforts at economic integration are purely Utopian, in the Organization of American States we emphasized the need to begin serious work to link the water basins of the Orinoco, the Amazon and the Plata. It is indeed heartening to note, that, now our proposal having been favorably received,' the first technical meeting for analysis and study of this most important continental project will be held in October 1981 in Lima, under the auspices of our regional organization.
157.	In his report on the work of the United Nations, the SecretaryGeneral has mentioned the happy outcome of a border incident between Peru and Ecuador [A/36/1, sect. IV]. In the early months of this year, Peru was forced, in defense of its sovereignty and integrity, to repel foreign military forces that had penetrated its territory.
158.	That situation was, however, resolved through the valuable intervention of the countries guaranteeing the PeruvianEcuadorian Protocol of Peace, Friendship and Frontiers of Rio de Janeiro and its complementary documents, still in force, which Peru and Ecuador solemnly signed in 1942.
159.	We should like to reiterate our appreciation to the Governments of Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the United States of America which, in their letter of 23 February 1981,9 informed the President of the Security Council of the Declaration that had been produced at the Nineteenth Meeting of Consultation of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the Organization of American States, stating that they had assumed and would continue to assume their responsibilities as countries guaranteeing the Rio de Janeiro Protocol of 1942.
160.	Within the framework of this legal instrument, Peru remains willing to cease placing of landmarks over the remaining 78 kilometer length of the common frontier of the Cordillera del Condor.
161.	Over the past few years we have been concerned about the growing social unrest in Central America and the Caribbean, which is an expression of the problems and difficulties in achieving sustained development. The magnitude of those unfortunate confrontations has served to draw the attention of the international community to the region.
162.	Although there is an awareness of the need and the desire to cooperate in efforts to promote socioeconomic development in the area, there has been a lack of specific machinery and a lack of coordination in efforts to achieve those objectives.
163.	We have noted that in spite of their willingness many Latin American countries that are technologically advanced and have the necessary human resources have not been able to transfer their experience and potentials to Central America and the Caribbean, because of the weakness of the economies of the donor and recipient countries, which stands in the way of the speedy and easy utilization of those resources. Consequently, now that many countries are anxious to establish what has been called a "miniMarshall Plan" for the area, Peru proposes a plan to support horizontal cooperation and establishment of a trust fund for that purpose.
164.	My Government would like to express its fraternal concern over the situation existing in the Republic of El Salvador. At the same time we express our hope that there will be a speedy settlement, and appeal for strict observance of the principle of nonintervention in a problem whose political and democratic settlement is strictly a matter for the people of El Salvador without any foreign interference, direct or indirect.
165.	Peru shares with other peoples of America, Africa, Asia and Oceania a common concern: development. The third world is an unavoidable reality in the great international discussions of our time. We have not yet found the path to a speedy and just development. But our countries continue to absorb, without a reciprocal balance, one third or more of the exports of the industrialized countries and we, contribute 40 per cent or more to the profits that those countries obtain from their investments. It is difficult for us to obtain fair terms of trade, but the statistics show that for the 19801990 decade we shall contribute nearly 30 per cent of the increase in world production. It should come as no surprise, then, that the countries of the third world are making a major effort to identify their common problems. Nor is it surprising that there has been a desire to reformulate international relations in such a way as to encompass all the nations of the world.
166.	Nevertheless, the continuation of protectionist policies in many industrialized countries, the problem of the decline in the prices of raw materials caused by forces quite beyond the control of the producing countries, the resistance to the transfer of financial resources to the developing countries, the postponement of demands for a new international economic order, the deterioration in the terms of trade, the defense of sovereignty and maritime jurisdiction are problems common to the entire developing world and must be the basis of a joint effort to overcome these problems. We need more than just a statement of the problems: we need determination to do away with whatever divides us and to affirm our areas of agreement.
167.	It is encouraging that the report of the Independent Commission on International Development Issues recognizes facts and underscores the prospects of the world today and tomorrow, and that it puts forward a body of solutions which, if strictly carried out, will make the NorthSouth dialog fruitful and might very well point the way towards the just world that we all aspire to. Peru is confident that a spirit of solidarity and a sense of balance will prevail at the meeting to be held shortly in Cancun, Mexico, with the participation of a limited number of Heads of State or Government of North and South. As the future of the international older is at issue, other summit meetings must be envisaged where those who are not participating on this occasion will be able to state their views.
168.	We view with interest the meeting that the Latin American Economic System [SELA] has scheduled for this year, to coordinate Latin American positions and to make effective our dialog with the United States, in an effort to bring about better understanding in our hemisphere.
169.	We consider that development should be the common heritage of mankind, the inalienable right of our peoples, and we believe also that peace and security should not be the privilege of any group of nations. In order to ensure this right to peace and international security, to ensure that it is enjoyed by one and all, the nonaligned movement arose, and inspired by the conviction that it is through the. association of all these countries, respecting the national sovereignty of all countries and rejecting any form of discrimination, that peace can be preserved without the need for nations to form blocs with one or another of the great world Powers.
170.	This year we are celebrating the twentieth anniversary of the nonaligned movement, and I am pleased to stress our contribution to the coordination of efforts of the developing countries which have strengthened our position in the struggle to establish a new world order. It is important to preserve the very essence of nonalignment, based on no commitment to either of the great world Powers.
171.	The present Government, of Peru, which, from the Peruvian past, has inherited traditions of justice and work and has made them the nucleus of a new ideology, is particularly well endowed to pursue an independent, sovereign foreign policy while at the same, time making full use of anything positive that is applicable to our national realities which can be found in the various policies pursued in today's world.
172.	In the search for a new order, the developing countries have been aware that they cannot achieve immediate results in their dialog with the industrialized countries, and they have realized that full use must be made of 'their own present and potential economies. For that reason,' the Group of 77, which encompasses at the present time more than 127 developing countries, put forward the idea of what it calls "SouthSouth cooperation", and this year the program for economic cooperation among developing countries [see A/36/333] was approved at its most recent meeting at Caraballeda, Venezuela. In a concrete and consistent way it contains distinct sectorial objectives in the financial, monetary, commercial, food, raw material, energy and technological areas now at various levels of development.
173.	It should be mentioned here that horizontal cooperation should not be seen as a substitute for global economic cooperation between the developing countries and the industrialized countries.
174.	The Government of Peru appreciates the true dimension of the efforts that are needed, and it wishes to participate in the solution of international problems. We have promoted global negotiations within the United Nations as the best way to achieve, by negotiation and not through confrontation, a restructuring of the present unjust international economic order, lowering the rising level of world tension and forging a truly safe world for everyone.
175.	Peru has been active in the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, which has been meeting since the end of 1973 and which in August completed its tenth session, at Geneva. In so doing, we have done nothing more than protect the higher national interests of our country, a mining country of the first order, which, in the future, with many other countries, could see the prices of its raw materials and minerals affected if in the future the free unilateral exploitation of the seabed by the highly industrialized countries and their transnational enterprises is permitted. That would violate the principle that the seabed and its resources are the common heritage of mankind.
176.	We are pleased by the fact that at the last meeting the unofficial text of the draft Convention became official, that the argument for 200 miles which was so tenaciously defended has finally achieved its official confirmation, the headquarters of the International Seabed Authority and of the International Tribunal on the Law of the Sea have been established and consensus has been reached on the difficult task of the delimitation of the economic zones and continental shelves between States with adjacent and opposing coastlines.
177.	As we have already stated, these achievements demonstrate that the States of the third world are united in their determination to prevent any changes in substantive aspects of the draft Convention. This is also a desires shared by the great majority of the developed countries that participated in the Conference.
178.	It is our firm hope that when the Government of the United States reviews its position on the draft convention it will reach conclusions similar to those that made it possible for its earlier negotiators to work within the Conference. This would mean an honoring of commitments negotiated by consensus among the other countries participating in the Conference. It would indeed be regrettable if the international law of the sea were to be undermined, for it is inevitable that it be established as the sole guarantee against chaos, confrontation and unlawful activities by any State.
179.	One of the most important events of the foreign policy of Peru this year has been Peru's accession to the Antarctic Treaty, signed in Washington on 1 December 1959. The Government of Peru considers that, given the special geographical position of our country, we have a direct and substantial interest in the Antarctic region and consequently, on the basis of the principle of the legal equality of all the signatories, we shall strive hard in the search for a general and final statute for that area in which equal consideration will be given to the interests of all the States involved.
180.	My country deems it opportune to mention the important step taken by the United Nations in promoting the Conference on New and Renewable Sources of Energy, which has permitted the drawing up of the Nairobi Program of Action on the development and utilization of those sources of energy." In addition, we believe that in order to consolidate the progress that has been made it will be necessary to bring about a real transfer of financial and technological resources from the developed countries to the developing countries with a view to the utilization of those new sources of energy.
181.	The Government of Peru views with apprehension the close relationship between the tense international situation and the deadlock in the disarmament process. The deterioration of the latter has been dangerously aggravated by an escalation in the arms race on a worldwide level which involves primarily those nations that have the largest arsenals of nuclear and conventional weapons. In this connection, Peru is particularly concerned over the fact that an appreciation of the universal importance of peace tends to be diluted in theoretical and binding formulations, if not in misunderstandings which lead to failure, and that the institutionalized efforts of the United Nations run the risk of becoming bureaucratized when they are not legitimized by the political will of Governments.
182.	In keeping with our traditional positions, Peru will continue to work in every way possible for general and complete disarmament.
183.	Our Organization, through its work on the constant and difficult task of promoting a world order in which each individual and each nation can enjoy without any encumbrance, limitations or threats the elementary rights to freedom, security, development and wellbeing, is the appropriate framework for the consideration of any matter that may have to do with the defense of human rights.
184.	Two decades ago, Peru ratified the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and we are a signatory the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and its Optional Protocol. Regionally, we have ratified the
American Convention on Human Rights, known as the "Pact of San Jose, Costa Rica". We have also signed other international instruments the purpose of which is to protect human rights.
185.	Peru, in keeping with its demonstrated humanistic calling, today reiterates its devotion to those principles and rights as well as its determination to contribute to the promotion of the essential dignity of the human person and the development and wellbeing of society in a framework of freedom, social justice and full respect for the basic rights of the individual.
186.	This historic position of principle, set forth in the new Political Charter of the State of Peru, has been and will be zealously respected by the Government of President Belaunde Terry.
187.	We reject as inhumane and contrary to the march of history the system of apartheid which prevails in South Africa. Peru is a country which is proud of its multiracial ancestry, and we cannot allow the establishment of discriminatory differences of any kind. This is set forth in one of the articles of the Peruvian Constitution.
188.	Peru once again denounces the unlawful occupation of the territory of Namibia, in flagrant violation of the express injunctions of the United Nations and of the advisory opinion of 21 June 1971 of the International Court of Justice.12 We reaffirm here the unconditional support of my Government for the self-determination of the Namibian people, their inalienable right to independence, respect for their sovereignty and territorial integrity and their right to their natural resources.
189.	Peru reaffirms its devotion to peace and its full and total support for the principle banning the use of force in the settlement of disputes, which is the fundamental guiding principle of its foreign policy. Disputes must be settled by the peaceful means set forth in the international instruments to which the parties are bound, for respect for the obligations arising from treaties, as enshrined in the Charter, is the indisputable foundation on which contemporary international relations are built. Thus, Peru will cooperate in the adoption of any international instrument which bans once and for all the use of force in relations among States.
190.	It is therefore regrettable that situations of tension persist between Iraq and Iran, in Cyprus, in Kampuchea and in Afghanistan. My delegation considers that every effort must be made in this Assembly and in the Security Council to put an end soon to those situations. At the same time, we give full backing to the SecretaryGeneral in his efforts to find negotiated political formulas which would contribute to their solution, whether by mandate of the Council or on his own initiative within the framework of his prerogatives.
191.	My delegation cannot fail to indicate its rejection of the recent invasion of Angola by foreign troops, which not only is an attack on the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, but which furthermore contributes to an increase in the threat to international peace and security.
192.	We express our serious concern over the deterioration in the situation in the Middle East. We condemn the aggression and the use of force in recent events both in Lebanon and in Iraq; they violate the standards of peaceful coexistence and the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations.
193.	if is urgent that the General Assembly find valid procedures and machinery which would bring this painful conflict to a satisfactory solution, bearing in mind the relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions, the secure existence of all the concerned States and parties in the region and all valid efforts to achieve peace and understanding.
194.	Peru considers that it is the obligation of the Assembly to tackle the task of making the provisions of the Charter of the Organization more effective. To that end, we believe that the decision-making machinery of the United Nations must be revitalized to make it more effective, especially in the case of the Security Council. It is discouraging to note the abuse of the exceptional privileges of certain countries in the Organization. It is therefore our urgent and inescapable obligation to resolve this serious situation.
195.	In my country, the Head of State has appealed to all political parties and all sectors of national activity to join together, without setting aside their own convictions, "in their humble homes with all their unfulfilled yearnings, in the squalor of their urban and rural slums, in their decaying schools, to take the decision to overcome their afflictions".
196.	He called for a great united effort: for national brotherhood.
197.	At this time of tension and trial for the international community, I think that it behooves us too to think deeply. There should be an appeal to the conscience of all nations to join together making use of only what is positive in progress and science to solve mankind's problems.
198.	For its part, my country, at this thirty-sixth session of the General Assembly, calls for world brotherhood.


===== Session 37 - 1982 =====
1.	I should like at the outset, Sir, to 
convey to you the greetings and congratulations 
of the delegation of Peru on your well-deserved 
election to the presidency of the thirty-seventh 
session of the General Assembly. This is 
recognition of your personal qualities as well as 
a tribute to Hungary, a country which has 
participated so actively and so significantly in 
the work of the United Nations.
2.	My delegation also wishes to express its 
appreciation and to convey its congratulations 
to Mr. Tsmat Kittani, who at a critical time for 
the international community demonstrated his 
exceptional abilities as an experienced and 
skilful diplomat.
3.	You will understand, Sir, with what 
satisfaction we greet Mr. Javier Perez de 
Cuellar, the Secretary- General. Peru takes pride 
in his election and in the contribution that he 
is making t^ the cause of the international 
community.
4.	Since it took office on 28 July 1980 the 
constitutional Government of Peru has shouldered 
the difficult task of putting into practice a 
spirit of democracy in which the effectiveness 
of a modem Consti-tution, the interplay of the 
branches of government, respect for human rights 
and the full enjoyment of freedoms should 
constitute the best assurance that we shall 
achieve our ideal of making man the supreme end 
of our social efforts.
5.	Two years have elapsed under the present 
Government and Peru takes satisfaction in the 
fact that it is fulfilling its aims. Freedom of 
expression for all the communications media is 
now absolute in our country. The elections that 
took place in 1980 were followed in November 1981 
by complementary elections at the municipal 
level. These indicated increased support for the 
party led by President Fernando Belaunde Terry, 
which gained 70 per cent of the votes cast at the 
national level.
41
6.	The problems of the present-day world are 
clearly causing serious frustrations in society 
to which it is reacting in different ways. The 
great majorities opt for political avenues which, 
in various ways, seek to find within the legal 
order appropriate replies to the requirements of 
collective well-being. Unfortunately, there are 
also those who react to adversity in irrational, 
blind and irresponsible ways.
7.	Despite the resolve and efforts of our 
Government to promote justice, well-being and 
progress within the framework of democratic 
principles, some minority groups, seeking to use 
violence to introduce an ill- defined political, 
economic and social programme, have resorted to 
acts which cause irreparable loss of human life 
and very serious material damage for a developing 
country. The Peruvian people rejects this 
criminal activity as shocking to its conscience 
and damaging to its interests, for what is 
destroyed is lost to all. Our whole country has, 
therefore, through its representative 
institutions and the broad range of political 
parties present in our national Parliament, 
condemned terrorism and continues to do so. Our 
Government has taken steps to prevent it, in 
strict observance of human rights. To that end, 
our Government will guarantee public peace with 
the necessary firmness, but without overstepping 
legal bounds in any respect. Persons involved in 
criminal offences have been brought before the 
judiciary the independence of which cannot be 
questioned for it is the only authority empowered 
to decide on the guilt of those involved and to 
apply the necessary penalties.
8.	His Holiness Pope John Paul II, in his 
pontifical message of 1980, reminded us that 
building peace is the task of all men and all 
nations and that violence is an evil unworthy of 
man, unacceptable as a solution to our problems, 
contrary to the truth of our humanity and, 
indeed, destructive of what it seeks to defend: 
the dignity, life and freedom of the human being. 
But he told us also: "We cannot sincerely condemn 
recourse to violence unless we engage in a 
corresponding effort to replace it by courageous 
political initiatives which aim at eliminating 
threats to peace by attacking the roots of 
injustice." That is precisely what the Government 
of Peru is seeking to do at the domestic level.
9.	Hence, together with the legitimate 
exercise of its constitutional responsibilities, 
the Government is pursuing a set of activities 
designed to bring about improvement in the 
depressed economic and social conditions of the 
poorest areas of our country, those areas in 
which the largest number of acts of violence have 
taken place. This poverty is the result of 
complex geographical conditions, isolation and 
the failure for over a century to address basic 
needs. It is being faced through courageous 
development programmes that will alleviate the 
difficult situation of the people living in those 
areas.
10.	Peru has signed all the international 
agreements on human rights to which it could 
accede and the principles of those agreements are 
embodied in the new Constitution. Our Government 
bases its efforts upon those principles in 
bringing about the full realization of each 
person and a regime of democracy and social 
solidarity. The occasional stories reaching the 
international community which attempt to 
contradict the spirit of authentic respect for 
human dignity in my country today must surely 
come as a surprise to those who have had an 
opportunity to visit Peru and to witness the 
climate of freedom prevailing in my country.
11.	In the international arena, Peru has 
sought further to achieve ever closer ties with 
its neighbour countries, links to which it 
attaches particular importance within its 
traditional policy of respect for the rights of 
others as well as zealous defence of its own 
rights.
12.	Peru has continued to participate 
actively in the processes of regional economic 
co-operation and integration. My Government has 
supported and resolutely contributed to the 
reactivation of the Andean Croup and to promoting 
the Latin American Integration Association, as 
well as in regional consultations and 
co-operation, within the framework of the Latin 
American Economic System, which are institutions 
to which Peru attaches the greatest importance in 
the strengthening and unity of Latin America as 
an effective response to the frustrations and 
unusual economic measures that the region as a 
whole and some countries in particular have 
experienced during the recent crisis in the South 
Atlantic.
13.	Moreover, in order to foster Latin 
American integration and co-operation, the Latin 
American region must be organized physically. In 
this respect, the Bolivarian Highway along the 
edge of the jungle, an initiative of President 
Belaunde Terry, which has received broad support 
from Latin American and Andean countries, is 
today in an advanced stage of completion. In the 
same spirit, President Belaunde has rescued the 
ambitious project of interconnecting the three 
major watersheds of the South American continent, 
a project which would make it possible to move 
large volumes of goods, services and passengers 
in the heart of our region. My Government is 
confident that, after the technical meeting on 
watershed inter-connection which took place last 
year in Lima, we will soon be able to undertake 
that work.
14.	On the other hand, the project for the 
creation of a trust fund for the promotion of 
horizontal technical co-operation with the 
countries of Central America and the Caribbean, 
which I presented at the 6th meeting of the 
thirty-sixth session of the General Assembly, has 
met with broad support from the countries of 
that area and from the Administration of UNDP. We 
hope that that fund, too, will be established in 
the near future.
Similarly, my country is participating in the 
necessary deliberations relating to the 
inter-American system. It is our view that it has 
become imperative to re-emphasize the capacity 
for concerted action among the countries of the 
region vis-a-vis the only country of the region 
which has world-wide interest. This task should 
not lead to exclusions of any kind, but rather to 
a clearer identification of our interests and a 
better representation and defence of those 
interests in continental and world forums.
16. The number of critical situations in the 
world has increased and, paradoxically, none of 
those that have now become traditional has yet 
been overcome. The worsening of the situation is 
seriously infecting the United Nations, and the 
constantly repeated appeals to States to act in 
conformity with the principles of the Charter are 
no longer sufficient. It has become absolutely 
necessary to prevent the spread of a cynical 
attitude.
17.	The basic elements of this situation are 
an alarming tendency to disregard the obligations 
of international law, in particular the 
obligation to abstain from the resort to 
aggression or the use or threat of force; 
policies of strength and the maintenance of 
spheres of influence or domination; interference 
in the internal affairs of States; the 
impossibility of getting the process of 
disarmament under way, and the frustrations 
encountered at the second special session of the 
General Assembly devoted to disarmament; the 
obstacles that are preventing the establishment 
of a new international economic order; the 
difficulties experienced in concluding the 
process of decolonization; policies of apartheid 
and racial dis-crimination; and the crisis in the 
United Nations.
18.	The Secretary-General has submitted his 
report on the work of the Organization, the 
importance and scope of which will be recognized 
by the world public. This report sums up the 
genuine anxiety of our peoples and shows the need 
to listen to the voice of reason and morality in 
the present dramatic circumstances. The Assembly 
will examine various aspects of the report, 
debate the proposals it contains and draw from it 
the new inspiration the Organization needs for 
the preservation of peace and the betterment of 
mankind and to ensure that it does not fail as 
the depositary of ideals which are beyond its 
ability and the will of our Governments to 
achieve.
l9. The meagre results of the action of the 
Security Council compel us to ask whether the 
assumptions upon which the Organization was 
founded have been overtaken by events. What is 
required is concerted diplomatic action at the 
highest level, as proposed by the 
Secretary-General, or any other approach which 
can ensure that the position of political 
privilege conferred upon the permanent members of 
the Security Council will be used for the 
effective fulfilment of their responsibilities 
with regard to international peace and 
co-operation. Otherwise we shall have to consider 
amendments to the Charter.
20.	We hope that the Secretary-General's 
firmness in presenting matters to the Assembly as 
he sees them and not as we would wish to see them 
will serve to promote a debate that will review 
the Orga-nization, because our peoples are beset 
by a two-fold anxiety: daily survival in terrible 
economic and social conditions, and survival as a 
species in the face of the increasing probability 
of a nuclear conflict.
21.	Our region has brought to the Assembly 
the question of the Malvinas Islands. Everybody 
is aware of our support for the principle of 
decolonization of the Malvinas Islands and for 
the claim of the sister Republic of Argentina to 
sovereignty over that archipelago. This is also 
called for in resolutions of the United Nations 
and the Organization of American States and in 
declarations by the movement of non- aligned 
countries. Faithful to its dedication to peace, 
Peru has made intense and repeated efforts to 
ensure a negotiated solution of the conflict and 
will continue to support negotiations between 
Argentina and the United Kingdom through the 
intermediary of the Secretary-Genera).
22.	In Central America there is a growing 
tendency towards confrontation, and the 
considerable difficulties faced by the peoples 
of the area are compounded by forms of foreign 
intervention, political polarization and internal 
and external armed struggle. It is necessary for 
States both within and outside this region, 
instead of trying for ideological reasons to 
decide how others should organize themselves to 
try urgently to provide broad support for their 
development.
23.	Peru deeply regrets the recent 
deterioration of the situation in the Middle 
East. We have made clear our rejection of 
intervention in and military use of the territory 
of Lebanon^ in violation of its indepen-dence and 
sovereignty, the persistence of policies of force 
and the commission of genocidal crimes against 
the Palestinian people.
24.	In this world forum, in the name of the 
Government and people of Peru, I reiterate our 
most vigorous condemnation, as already expressed 
by the Chief Executive of my country, of these 
acts, which violate the most elementary 
principles of human coexistence.
25.	Recent developments have clearly and 
painfully shown that the question of Palestine 
constitutes the central factor of the Middle East 
crisis. It is our view that for reasons of 
principle, of history and of justice, the 
Palestinian people must exercise the inalienable 
rights of all people, as recognized by the 
Organization.
26.	We renew our appeal to all the parties to 
the conflict to co-operate in the search for a 
comprehensive and definitive political 
settlement, taking into account the rights of all 
the peoples of the region, within the framework 
of the relevant resolutions adopted by the 
Security Council and the General Assembly.
27.	The stability and well-being of 
South-East Asia are linked to the problem of 
Kampuchea. Peru is a member of the /It/ Committee 
of the International Conference on Kampuchea, 
and we hope that the bases established by the 
General Assembly, under the auspices of the 
Secretary-General, will lead to a negotiated 
settlement.
28.	We support the steps taken by the 
Secretary- General with respect to Afghanistan 
and Cyprus. Only with the political will of the 
parties will it be possible to achieve just and 
balanced agreements which, as in the case of 
Kampuchea, presupposes the withdrawal of foreign 
troops and self-determination for the peoples 
involved.
29.	Peru hopes that the question of Korea can 
be resolved by peaceful and negotiated means by 
the parties.
30.	The struggle for independence in 
Territories that have not yet overcome 
colonialism continues. Namibia must be rescued 
from the illegal occupation from which it is 
suffering. Peru, an active member of the Special 
Committee against apartheid; condemns and rejects 
this practice, which is an infringement of human 
dignity.
31.	The United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea' is the fruit of a long and arduous 
effort to reconcile the rights and interests of 
States in different circumstances by means of 
universal rules ensuring the rational utilization 
of the ocean areas not as an instrument of 
hegemony but as an instrument of justice, peace, 
security, co-operation, development and 
well-being for all peoples. Each State must now 
evaluate the advantages of a legal order, respect 
for and implementation of which would protect 
their most essential rights and interests both 
within and outside zones of national 
jurisdiction. My Government is making such an 
assessment in the light of certain provisions of 
our Constitution and the laws of our Republic. It 
will be for the Congress of my country to express 
its approval or disapproval of the Convention. 
Meanwhile we shall follow with close attention 
the statements made by other Governments, in the 
hope that the will for justice and international 
concord will prevail.
32.	Peru will continue to defend its rights 
of sovereignty and jurisdiction over its 
adjacent waters and the sea-bed and subsoil 
thereof to the limit of 200 miles, for the 
purposes that have been foreseen since 1947, as 
part of its maritime territory and without 
prejudice to freedom of international 
communication. Furthermore, it will not renounce 
the defence of the rules established by the 
Declaration of Principles Governing the Sea-Bed 
and the Ocean Floor, and the Subsoil Thereof, 
beyond the Limits of National Juris-diction, 
adopted in 1970 Those principles have been 
incorporated in the Convention, according to 
which the sea bed and its resources outside the 
limits of national jurisdiction constitute the 
common heritage of mankind and can be exploited 
only for the benefit of all countries, under an 
international regime and international machinery. 
We shall regard as illegal any use of the 
international sea-bed zone by States that have 
adopted unilateral legislation or which have 
subscribed to agreements of reciprocity contrary 
to the principles of the Convention. We trust 
that those States will refrain from following a 
course whose implications would be very grave in 
the area of international law and in the 
development of friendly co-operation among 
countries, as well as in relation to policies 
applicable to other areas of ocean space.
33.	The results of the second special session 
of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament 
are discouraging. Not only was there no progress 
with respect to what had been agreed at the first 
special session on disarmament, but the consensus 
of 1978 itself has apparently been challenged.
34.	It is indispensable that all countries of 
the international community, particularly the 
nuclear Powers, participate in a new effort to 
move forward in the complex problem of 
disarmament. For its part, Peru will continue to 
exert efforts, both internationally and 
regionally, to effect limitation of arms 
expenditures and to protect Latin America and 
other regions of the developing world from the 
nuclear threat, in the conviction that the goal 
of disarmament will be reached only by approaches 
that take due account of the interests of all 
parties.
35.	We are witnessing a day-by-day 
deterioration of the opportunities for diplomatic 
negotiation and political agreement. In view of 
this, the movement of non-aligned countries 
clearly has a role to play. Its objectives and 
its reason for existence as an independent 
factor in international relations have become all 
the more significant and relevant in view of the 
grim picture we are facing in all parts of the 
world.
36.	The international economic situation 
could not be more critical. Inflation and 
recession continue to be the main features of a 
crisis that has ceased to be a mere slump in the 
business cycle. While it is true that the crisis 
affects everyone, it is also true that we are not 
all equally affected. Unemployment is the most 
serious social consequence of the international 
economic crisis, but the developing countries, 
unlike the industrialized countries, find it 
difficult to provide help for the unemployed. 
Capital goods have continued to rise in price, 
in inverse proportion to the prices of raw 
materials. Financing for development projects is 
becoming increasingly costly and difficult to 
find. The industrialized countriesósome more than 
othersóare beginning to introduce tariff and non- 
tariff barriers which are contrary to the spirit 
of free trade that they themselves champion. The 
mounting external debt now constitutes for all 
countries, industrialized and developing alike, 
both a burden and a thread not only to their 
economic progress but to the very stability of 
the international financial system.
37.	Things cannot be allowed to remain as 
they are much longer. The international economic 
crisis is the result of grave difficulties of a 
political and social order fisting the 
international community. The sense of urgency 
among peoples of the world today is accompanied 
by a deep frustration at the lack of 
understanding and inability Governments have 
demonstrated in finding common approaches to 
alleviating the tragic situation facing them.
38.	We must prevent despair from setting in, 
and we must remove tension in order to facilitate 
the solution of grave problems that directly 
affect international peace; and security. A 
supreme effort on the part of all members of the 
international community is required to find a 
minimum consensus that will enable them to 
reactivate the world economy, at the same time 
taking care to prevent the return of inflation.
39.	We therefore consider it to be 
appropriate to agree on an emergency world 
economic plan, in which all States and 
international organizations would participate 
without discrimination or self-exclusion. To that 
effect, my Government will put forward at Session 
of the General Assembly, a proposal for the 
immediate adoption of such plan, in order to give 
impetus to the recovery of the world economy.
40.	At the same time, we must continue our 
efforts for the construction of a new 
international economic order. We must emphasize 
that the launching of global negotiations is an 
imperative need for the international community 
as a whole, in order to rebuild, from the ground 
up, the imbalanced system of international 
economic relations.
41.	My Government recognizes the position 
assumed by the developed countries at the 
Versailles Economic Summit in June, and is 
prepared to co-operate closely W3th the rest of 
the countries of the Group of 77, in the 
definition of a consensus that would permit the 
earliest possible beginning of global 
negotiations. In view of the urgency of the 
present circumstances, my Government expresses 
the hope that at this session the General 
Assembly will adopt a resolution stipulating the 
beginning of global negotiations.
42.	Peru is also aware of the importance of 
the sixth session of UNCTAD, to be held next year 
in Belgrade. The serious problems faced by the 
developing countries make it imperative that that 
Conference achieves specific results, especially 
in the important areas of primary commodities, 
trade, currency and finance.
43.	Peru also reiterates its support for the 
Integrated Programme for Commodities and the 
Common Fund for Commodities, as a central 
instrument for the organization of international 
trade in such com-modities.
44.	My country, as a member of the 
Consultative Group of 18, is participating in 
preparations for the ministerial meeting of GATT 
to be held later this year. We find it 
indispensable that that meeting attach priority 
to the interests of the developing countries in 
view of the reduced benefits that they have 
derived from multilateral trade negotiations, 
bearing in mind that the process of global 
negotiations must not be disturbed.
45.	Peru wishes to reaffirm the great 
importance of South-South co-operation for the 
developing countries and unreservedly supports 
the implementation of the Programme of Action 
adopted at the High-Level Conference on Economic 
Co-operation among Developing Countries in May 
1981 at Caracas.^ In this context, we support the 
immediate convening of a meeting to establish a 
generalized system of preferences among the 
developing countries as a practical and effective 
means of promoting our economic links.
46.	Next year the Republics of America will 
celebrate the two hundredth anniversary of the 
birth of the Liberator, Simon Bolivar, the 
founder of nations, a man of his time and of our 
time. We hope that his spirit of freedom and 
justice will preside over the endeavours of 
Governments today and we pay a well-deserved 
tribute to his memory and to his work.
47.	This thirty-seventh session of the 
General Assembly is taking place in particularly 
difficult circumstances. It has been many years 
since we have seen an economic crisis such as 
that of today, in which communication among 
States is so charged with anxiety and 
discouragement is so prevalent among our peoples.
48.	Our country has demonstrated its 
dedication to peace, defence of the principles of 
law and international conciliation, which we do 
not wish to abandon. We believe that the only way 
in which the urgent problems of mankind can be 
faced and overcome is through negotiation, and we 
reaffirm our faith in the United Nations as the 
highest forum of the peoples. For all these 
reasons, we declare that Peru will spare no 
effort to ensure that this session will be 
qualitatively different from others more 
effective and more committed to the goals of 
reconciliation and harmony, peace, freedom, law 
and justice.


===== Session 38 - 1983 =====
﻿97.	 Mr. President, the delegation of Peru takes great pleasure in congratulating you most cordially on your election as President of the thirty-eighth session of the Assembly, an election which is a tribute to your personal qualities and merits and a just tribute to the sister Republic of Panama.
98.	At the same time, I wish to express our gratitude to Mr. Imre Hollai, whose work at the last session was highly appreciated by the international community. I also wish to extend a warm welcome to the sister republic of Saint Christopher and Nevis on the occasion of its admission to the United Nations.
99.	Lastly, I wish to convey to the Secretary-General our esteem for the work which he has done with such wisdom and dedication for the cause of peace, security and international co-operation for development.
100.	I wish to make a brief personal digression to say that 20 years ago I was here in this same hall as the Minister for Foreign Affairs under President Fernando Belaunde, and I had then the same privilege of addressing the General Assembly. If I were asked what my impression after 20 years was, I would say that I was not so inclined to judge things by results, because the work of the United Nations for peace and international justice is permanent and long-lasting. I also see the value of the effort made by the international community to hold a dialogue and an exchange of views without obstacles or impediments in the Organization. This is a valuable contribution to peace, and that is why we have such faith in the United Nations. That is why we believe so much in its endeavours; it is not because of its results—I repeat—but because these assemblies and meetings are a means to dialogue and a means of seeking solutions to difficult problems, motivated by a sincere desire to establish peace and justice in the international community.
101.	I wish to begin my statement by reaffirming Peru's unswerving support for the principles of the Charter and its firm belief in the successful outcome of current efforts to make progress and to restore peace where it has been disturbed and to bring about justice where it has been thwarted. The continuity of our foreign policy in this direction and its contribution to the satisfaction of common yearnings are the best testimony of our loyalty to the Charter and our vocation to the service of the ideals of peace and security of the international community. In this respect, we believe that the principles of the legal equality of States, non-intervention and self-determination of peoples, and respect for treaties, are essential for the maintenance of international peace and security. Peru, as a peace-loving country which maintains and desires to maintain the best relations with neighbouring countries and with all countries, will remain faithful to these principles which are inviolate, and will not depart from them at any time or under any circumstances.
102.	On the occasion of the celebration of the thirty- fifth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, my country reiterates its full support for the principles enshrined in that Declaration. Peru has approved and applies without any restriction all international instruments which call for respect for human rights and has incorporated them into its own constitutional texts, in order to make sure that they are fully implemented. For this purpose there exist special juridical instruments, procedural mechanisms for recourse and a tribunal for constitutional guarantees whose task is to restore the provisions of the Political Charter wherever they have been disregarded.
103.	We are a democratic country and live in a state of law. The law guarantees the full independence of the branches of power and the periodic succession of Governments through free exercise of the suffrage to elect political authorities, members of the legislature and local government.
104.	My country is adversely affected by the international economic crisis and by a succession of natural disasters of unprecedented magnitude. However, the determination of our population to work and to overcome these effects remains intact. The people desire to live in peace in order to redouble their efforts in the task of reconstruction and development. That is why they reject the outrages committed by a group of terrorists who are conspiring against these objectives and who, paradoxically, call themselves the "Shining Path", when in fact they should call themselves the "Dark Path", as they were very properly called by Adolfo P6rez Esquivel, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize.
105.	The criminal activities of this group which have claimed victims among persons of the most modest social and economic strata, among men and women, old people and children, are concentrated in a zone in the hinterland of my country, representing 2.5 per cent of the national territory.
106.	The Government, exercising its constitutional powers and seeking to protect endangered human lives, has been obliged to declare a state of emergency. The forces of order are acting resolutely to counter this threat and are bringing the captured culprits before the judiciary, which, as I have said, is fully independent. Unfortunately, there have been many casualties on both sides in these actions.
107.	As a free and democratic country, Peru keeps its doors open to those who wish to come and verify these terrorist deeds for themselves and to draw their own conclusions. In this respect, we find it unacceptable that an organization such as Amnesty International should irresponsibly disseminate fanciful versions of the situation, whose inaccuracy has Been reliably demonstrated.
108.	We believe that the greater the moral authority claimed by a body that says it is defending human rights, as the above-mentioned organization does, the greater is its obligation to verify the accuracy of its information, so as to avoid making incorrect statements which mislead public opinion to the detriment of the good reputation abroad of a Government which deserves respect because its conduct is in keeping with the Constitution and the law. The defence of human rights does not allow of a double standard. It is not right to remain silent about the crimes of terrorists while denouncing the custodians of public order for fulfilling their duties under the law when they take action against the terrorists for their crimes against civilization.
109.	We nations which are the heirs to the legacy of Simon Bolivar celebrated this year the bicentenary of the birth of the Liberator. At the invitation of the President of Venezuela, the Presidents of the Bolivarian republics met at Caracas last July to reaffirm the principles of unity and solidarity bequeathed to our nations by the illustrious Venezuelan.
110.	On that occasion, important instruments were signed within the Andean framework. The principal document provides new guidelines at a high political level for the sub regional integration programme, in the light of the experience of recent years. On that occasion, the
Presidents declared their interest in the initiatives taken by the President of Peru, Mr. Fernando Belaunde for the creation of an Andean peso as a unit of account designed to facilitate transactions within the zone, for the establishment of the principle of free transit of persons within the Andean area, and for the linking up of the energy networks and waterways of the continent. The viability of that project was demonstrated by the recent journey of President Belaunde himself along the rivers which make up the Amazon and Orinoco river basins.
111.	For some years now, countries have been making increasingly gloomy assessments of the international situation and increasingly pessimistic predictions about the future. Unfortunately, it must be recognized that there are reasons for this. It is not that the international community is being overwhelmed by alarmist and negative sentiments; it is that it has reached the objective conclusion that the conditions for international understanding are rapidly deteriorating or that efforts to improve them have for various reasons proved fruitless.
112.	One important reason for this concern is the critical economic situation of the majority of countries, whose opportunities for development have been largely blocked by the burden of external indebtedness, by protectionist practices, by the shortage of credit on reasonable terms, by the decline in commodity prices, and by the unacceptable inequality of terms of trade. Such a state of affairs is unprecedented in an interdependent world which should be moving swiftly along the path towards international solidarity. Unfortunately the very opposite is happening.
113.	Furthermore, there is a lack of will on the part of some States to conduct their foreign relations in a harmonious manner, with respect for the rules that have been established precisely in order to guarantee peaceful and orderly international coexistence.
114.	This dangerous situation is a result of hegemonistic leanings and is promoted by the power politics being played with alarming frequency in various parts of the world.
115.	It is all too commonplace to hear of violations of the fundamental principles of international coexistence that are explicitly set forth in the founding Charter of the Organization. Instead of conciliatory attitudes, we are met with positions of strength and acts of overt or covert intervention which violate the sovereign equality, independence and sovereignty of States. The principle of self-determination for peoples still under foreign domination is being threatened; responsibilities assumed in solemn commitments are being disregarded; the threat or use of force is resorted to and in some cases goes as far as aggression, invasion and military occupation; apartheid and other forms of racial discrimination continue to be practised; fundamental human rights are endlessly violated; the arms race continues; and, there is clearly a lack of determination to join in the effective co-operation which would make possible the justice and the new international economic order so loudly demanded by the majority of nations.
116.	Very recently the fragility of the concept of international security was made clear by the shooting down of a Korean Air Lines aircraft. This was a tragedy for the Republic of Korea for other countries and for civil aviation that should never have happened and could have been avoided. Motives of security and national sovereignty, however worthy of respect, should never imply any risk to the lives of passengers or the safety of international air transport.
117.	We must recognize that the situation I have been describing affects the survival of mankind, for nothing and no one can assure us that unresolved or exacerbated crises, or others which could come about in the future, as well as the increasingly immoderate power politics, and our growing inability to settle disputes in a speedy, peaceful and reasonable way, will not give rise to the great conflict from which there will be no return.
118.	Thus it is clear that the fundamental theme of our times is international peace and security. But we must not only avoid and resolve situations which endanger international peace and security; we must also try, through collective action, to achieve the goals of the economic and social development to which all the peoples of the world are entitled. If we fail to make rapid progress in this area, peace is in danger. We must therefore shoulder our full responsibilities without delay and with a clear awareness that these responsibilities are not the same for all, even though they are inescapable if we want to guarantee the security of all, which is one of the fundamental purposes of the Organization.
119.	My country, motivated by these convictions, aspires to contributing to the work of the Security Council, a task which requires a noble and firm commitment to the purposes of the Organization.
120.	The Secretary-General's report on the work of the Organization	is a document which by the wisdom and profundity of its analysis gives us much food for thought. We fully share his grave concern about the international political situation. We agree with his description of 1983 as a disappointing year in respect of the quest for peace, stability and justice. But we also agree with his view that the United Nations continues to be the best, if not the only, instrument at our disposal for the achievement of those ends. We hope that the Member States, particularly the great Powers with special prerogatives in the Security Council, will shoulder their responsibility at this stage of history and take fully into account the note of alarm sounded by the Secretary-General.
121.	Peru shares responsibility for the historic trend that the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries has generated in international relations. We attended the Seventh Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at New Delhi, determined to take part in the search for effective solutions to the problems affecting the security of all countries and the development of the people of the third world.
122.	That recent meeting represented a very important milestone in the movement's work. From a genuinely non-aligned and realistic position we made an analysis of the most pressing problems of mankind and appealed to all members of the international community for a joint search for solutions.
123.	As a developing, non-aligned, peace-loving country, Peru reiterates its profound belief in the need to limit and control the arms race. This is the obligation of all countries, but some have a greater responsibility in this regard than others. We advocate a firm policy, in this regard, as a serious and sincere contribution to peace that will make it possible to allocate to the priority aims of development part of the colossal financial and technological resources now being devoted to unproductive purposes which pose a threat to the peace of the world.
124.	It is for the medium and smaller Powers to act as spokesmen for the moral conscience of mankind, which demands nuclear disarmament and the prohibition of chemical, incendiary and other similar weapons. Similarly, the use of outer space should be reserved exclusively for peaceful purposes for the benefit of mankind.
125.	It is Peru's firm conviction that it is possible to find peaceful solutions that will eliminate the grave tensions in the Central American region. Indeed, we believe that this is essential. Such solutions must be based on a recognition of the economic and social problems that the inhabitants of the region confront, on respect for the sovereignty and independence of the States concerned, that is, non-intervention, on the self-determination of the peoples, and on the agreement and reconciliation of the parties, as advocated by the Contadora Group, which my country resolutely supports.
126.	We are therefore very much opposed to turning Central America into a battlefield where alien ideologies can fight it out. We do not want to see the great Powers supplying the weapons and the countries of the area providing the dead in a dispute for which there is no rational justification.
127.	Peru supports and will continue to support the legitimate claims of the brother Argentine Republic to sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands. The situation requires a prompt solution through negotiations, as urged by the international community.
128.	As a country linked by many factors, and particularly by geographical factors, to the Antarctic region, Peru reiterates its legitimate interest in everything connected with the problems of that continent and its future use, and will strive to devote to the debate on the matter the attention that it deserves.
129.	My country profoundly regrets the persistence of the grave situation in the Middle East. The delay in finding a solution to the problem of Palestine is the cause of the tensions and confrontations in the region. There-, fore, we believe that efforts to find a permanent and just settlement must take into account the right of the Palestinian people to self-determination and independence. Similarly, it is indispensable to reaffirm the right of all States of the region to live in peace and security within internationally recognized frontiers.
130.	We condemn the intervention in and military use of Lebanon, and call for the full independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of that country. We reiterate our support for respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity, unity and non-aligned status of the Republic of Cyprus. We share the international community's rejection of the continued foreign military occupation of Kampuchea and Afghanistan, two non-aligned, developing countries. We are sure that the Korean question can be resolved by peaceful means by the parties directly concerned. We reject colonialism and all forms of neo-colonialism, and support the just cause of the independence of Namibia, within the framework of United Nations resolutions; we are convinced that the Secretary-General's recent efforts will promote the attainment of that noble objective. We condemn and reject the policy of apartheid, which we regard as an inhuman system which runs against the current of history. That view accords with the feelings of our people and article 88 of our Constitution.
131.	There appear to be signs of an economic recovery in some developed countries as this year draws to a close. However, these indications of a possible recovery in one sector of the world economy and of a slowing down of inflationary trends have not yet had an impact on the developing countries.
132.	It is therefore disturbing to note that policies are still being applied, mainly in the industrialized countries, which act against the recovery of world trade. This can be seen not only in the financial conditions imposed on countries deficient in resources, but also in the protectionist practices which impede the normal flow of trade. Excessive control of financial liquidity because of the expectation of pronounced fiscal imbalances in capital- exporting countries is keeping interest rates at very high levels. This jeopardizes the development efforts of countries with large foreign debts.
133.	Commodity prices remain very low and there are market difficulties, in that external financing for development needs is hard to come by and terms are excessively onerous. In such conditions, how can the developing world overcome its problems? With what resources can it meet its external obligations? Effective forms of cooperation between creditor and debtor countries must be found, because there is a mutual interest in resolving this grave problem. If it is possible to find any positive aspect of the present crisis, it is that it has highlighted more than ever the interdependence of all nations, so that they are all seen to need and to complement one another.
134.	Another aspect related to the foregoing is the need to ensure that norms applicable to operational policies of the international financial institutions will be revised on the basis of a consensus among Member countries, which duly takes into account criteria more in keeping with present-day realities. Without that meaning the abandonment of practices of discipline and sound financial and fiscal management, it is advisable that countries in need of funds have easier and more timely access to those sources of easy financing. That would enable them to deal adequately with their immediate problems and to embark upon medium- and long-term development policies with greater assurance. It is urgently necessary to update institutions as useful as those, which were created in earlier times in order to deal with other realities. There is an equally urgent need to provide them with the resources they need to carry out their functions fully.
135.	The unification of negotiating criteria for the problem of external indebtedness is an advisable policy in the critical conditions in which the developing countries now find themselves. There are common denominators and individual experiences which should be exchanged for the mutual benefit of those concerned.
136.	At the last session of the General Assembly my country raised the question of the need to reach agreement on a co-ordinating programme for the recovery of the world economy, for dealing with the immediate problems of the developing countries and facilitating the recovery of the world economy while directing it towards a sustained growth. The essence of that initiative was embodied in resolution 37/252, the implementation of which we look forward to in the near future.
137.	The heads of State of the non-aligned countries, meeting at New Delhi, recognized that never before had the economic destiny of the developed and the developing countries been more closely linked and that the economic revival of the North is quite simply impossible without the survival of the South.
138.	Since then the Summit of Industrialized Nations took place at Williamsburg, and we, the developing countries, hoped it would be the other watershed of dialogue and accord. There was also the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, whose results were not only discouraging in a world in crisis as ours is but also inexplicable, given the lack of understanding and political decision on the part of the industrialized nations.
139.	Economic co-operation among developing countries, as embodied in the Caracas programme of action, is very important. In the present state of affairs, the strengthening of economic and political links among developing countries is imperative.
140.	The meeting of the heads of State held on the initiative of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, in her capacity as Chairman of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, has just been concluded. My country very strongly endorses the genuine principles which inspired the movement. The informal dialogue that was held with the heads of State and Government present at the meeting leads us to hope that a greater sensitivity towards and a clearer perception of the problems will make possible the adoption of immediate and concrete measures for the well justified and urgent demands of the developing countries and also the development of a common will to initiate global negotiations.
141.	Peru, as a coastal State of the eastern Pacific, is convinced of the present and future importance of the Pacific basin, towards which new and visionary expectations on the part of mankind appear to turn. That region is showing economic and political dynamism by virtue of its abundant natural resources, the appearance of new industrial societies and the emergence of numerous States. That is a very large geographic, economic and political area for which we see a promising future. The Pacific Ocean should be a model of peace and co-operation from which nuclear testing and military confrontation would be excluded, and in which all forms of international co-operation and solidarity would be promoted. The area comprises new countries with great expectations. Peru attaches the greatest importance to the efforts being made to achieve a better knowledge of that basin and to identify areas of co-operation. We are establishing diplomatic relations with many countries of the region and are participating in various regional forums, because we believe that the centre of gravity of the world economy is tending to shift towards the Pacific basin. We must seek, from the very outset, to have peace, solidarity and justice implanted there as norms of conduct among the nations of that vast area, as well as in the rest of the world.
142.	On behalf of the people and Government of Peru, I should not wish to fail to convey our gratitude for the sympathy and assistance received from the international community on the occasion of the recent natural disasters which devastated large regions of my country. I wish to emphasize the valuable initiative of the Secretary-General in convening a special conference to channel aid to the brother peoples of Bolivia and Ecuador, as well as Peru, in connection with those disasters.
143.	We have sought to emphasize some of the principal problems engaging the attention of our Governments, and, therefore, of the Organization, problems which require just and prompt solutions in order to safeguard the international order now in danger, through sincere dialogue and expression of our desire for order and world peace. The persistence of some of those problems casts a shadow over our future, but that should not in any way weaken our faith and our determination to arrive at formulas to attain peace and security, which are the objectives of the international system and which it is the responsibility and duty of all of us to protect.
 



===== Session 39 - 1984 =====
﻿To come to the rostrum of the General Assembly is cause for deep emotion. One feels the mysterious force of world brotherhood even though this does not conceal the clouds on the horizon. We must place ourselves above all controversy and seek only peace. Our feelings at the beginning of this address are those of sympathy and solidarity with those who do not enjoy peace, with those whose lives are threatened and whose property is destroyed, with those who have faced fratricidal wars and have been maimed, with those who are the living testimony to acts of violence and intolerance.
3.	Ore might wonder why the United Nations has not prevented those evil actions, but perhaps we fail to see how much suffering has been avoided by means of quiet and intense actions, how many tears have not been shed and how much blood has not been spilt as a result of the persistent efforts of this great universal institution. However, we cannot really live in tranquillity so long as peace does not prevail all over our planet. May our words and our deeds together work towards that lofty objective.
4.	From this rostrum authoritative words have been spoken by high-ranking world dignitaries on questions relating to arms. I am not a special authority on those questions. For that reason I shall deal mainly with matters falling within my competence and the competence of Latin American nations: the threat of financial colonialism on the one hand, and the threat of terrorism on the other.
5.	Following the oil crisis and the proliferation of Eurodollars, a change took place in credit systems. Great encouragement was given to the investment of these great flows of capital, and this imposed a responsibility on the debtor nations as well on the lenders. Enormous obligations were thus created, and now we face difficulties in trying to repay.
209
6.	World organizations have endeavoured to find formulas in this regard, and the formula most frequently resorted to is that of prescribing a drastic reduction in public expenditure, which can be
7.	World peace requires that a solution be found to the problem of indebtedness—a realistic solution. Of course we accept advice with regard to seeking economic health. We welcome prescriptions, but we should not wish them to become a kind of death certificate. There must be a clear conception of the fact that austerity must go along with new measures towards development. All credit granted for development must be revised and brought into line with the conditions which prevail today. If we continue to follow the old patterns, paralysis will be inevitable, and that paralysis must be of fundamental concern to the United Nations, because it could be a prelude to war.
8.	Here very often when the arms race and nuclear weapons are discussed one may perhaps see in them the major threat, and all our concerns are focused on them, but we must also consider the concern over wars in gestation which are based on economic problems, on unemployment, on malnutrition, which are brought about by an economic system that is not well suited to present-day realities.
9.	Austerity without recession means, for us, a policy that would accept the principle of fiscal discipline, of cuts in so far as they are possible, but without going beyond what is possible. We all know that in our countries, particularly in Latin American countries, most of the budget is devoted to the payment of wages and services, and therefore only a very small part is devoted to public works and to capita! formation by the State. Therefore, of course, an exaggerated cut would tend to bring about the elimination of those items, and thus the State becomes a spectator rather than an actor. It ceases to be an important employer, and it defers works, usually having to do with public health, education, energy supplies and nutrition. We must therefore ask from this rostrum that the competent organs speed up the processes, that they seek better absorption of resources in world markets and that they grant credits speedily, attempting to reduce in so far as possible the local counterpart, because the lending of credit on the basis of a high local counterpart makes it almost impossible to use the funds.
10.	In my country and in the Andean region generally, and most particularly in Ecuador and Colombia, our immediate neighbours, where we still see the tradition of an old society, where there are basic concerns, where we see what Toynbee used to speak about and admire—a very severe geographical challenge overcome by perseverance, effort and the talents of the Andean society—there, of course, in our remote past there was no international exchange. There was not even a monetary system. Let us recall that in Rome currency was as important as the sword. In the Andean civilization, which assumed Roman proportions—if we drew a line from Pasto in Colombia to the Maule River in Chile, it would equal the distance from Gibraltar to Jerusalem—a system of justice was established, a system of solidarity based on a code of ethics. It was possible to maintain full supplies—supplies which we now long for—and a regime prevailed which heralded our present policy of social justice, during a time when people had to till the soil for the orphans, the widows and the disabled.
! 1. Such a society, which some find Utopian and some find merely archaic, has left us with a basic teaching; it has shown us that it is possible to have governmental organization and social justice even in the absence of money. Today's world lacks money— not completely, but in part. No one would ask that we go back, but we should note that there is a precedent and that justice and order can be attained even in the absence of money. That is the basic message of the Andean civilizations at this time when money is so scarce. That is why we seek this blending, not only of races, of Europeans and of the indigenous populations of our continent, but a blending which is expressed in all spheres of action and culture, and one that should not exclude a mixing of the economy.
12.	For that reason, any proposal made to Latin America, and especially to those areas where the time-honoured traditions still prevail and the old population is found to be pure and almost intact, must go through a regional screen, a screen which allows for the reaffirming of national identity, a screen of realism; it must not be a foreign, alien and cold prescription.
13.	There is a tendency to resolve economic problems in terms of balance, in terms of figures, in terms of red and black, but such balance sheets do not resolve the problem unless they take into account the political and social situation and, above all, the minimum standard of living which we all desire for our peoples.
14.	I therefore take the opportunity of my presence at this august rostrum to reiterate the appeal which I have made in other forums for a change to be effected in the financial and credit systems at the international level so that we may assist our peoples to move forward.
15.	In brief, our request is that at the economic and financial levels we resort to creativity and to imagination to provide the answer that we continue to seek. In the world today, the situation can be defined in terms of financial colonialism, and dependency can be as serious a question now as it used to be at the political level before the entire world awakened to freedom and before the creation of an organization of the broad scope of the United Nations in which the nations of the world are represented and through which all nations have access to the world debate and can make known their views on the basis of justice and equity.
16.	We are also concerned about the problem of terrorism. Just as the arms race is a prelude to war— and members of the Assembly have discussed that subject with authoritative experts—terrorism is the anticipation of war; its objective is to create a climate that is likely to lead to bridgeheads or beach-heads from which conflagrations can emerge. Terrorism is typified by cowardice. Attacks, killings and destruction occur, after which the aggressor withdraws to the shadows. The economy of weak nations is damaged and discord is sown in places where solidarity had hitherto prevailed.
17.	In Peru we have had the disagreeable experience that in part of the sierra there have been hostilities because of terrorist action. As a result, 74 humble local government and education authorities have been cruelly and treacherously assassinated. At least 100 defenders of public order have lost their lives in the past three years, and hundreds of innocent and peaceful peasants, tradesmen and members of indigenous communities have also fallen. In some cases the aggressors too have lost their lives. But, for us, all blood shed is equally important and all suffering touches us.
18.	We therefore hope that these terrorist movements, which always have international origins, may be wiped out. It is a fundamental task of the United Nations to put an end to them. To effect a cure is much more costly and complicated. We must eradicate the scourge of terrorism.
19.	That this movement has arisen not from within the affected country but from without has been amply demonstrated by the fact that there is a well- thought-out strategy of destruction of the entire energy system. The main target is the electricity system of a country, a system built with much sacrifice and invested with the hopes of the people. Terrorists attempt to halt rural electrification, which we are all interested in advancing. Electricity towers are toppled, energy cables are cut, power-stations are blown up and communication lines are cut by the blowing up of bridges. Poor countries which have scarcely sufficient resources for their development, given the population explosion, find that they must use their resources not to create new wealth but to replace what has been destroyed by such cowardly acts.
20.	The international nature of this problem is confirmed in the communication system because, whenever damage is done, the news automatically goes around the world. It is exaggerated and it is used to the detriment of the country in which the terrorist act originated. This has been proved time and again.
21.	Finally, terrorism is related to another scourge of humanity, the drug trade. The drug trade finances terrorism. It is the marriage of crime and vice. Out of that marriage has been born this threat to peaceful peoples whose normal lives should be zealously guarded by them and by the community of nations so worthily represented in the United Nations.
22.	Mr. President, the high office that you now occupy and which has brought Zambia—that dear and friendly nation—an election for which we congratulate you, was once occupied by a modest, humble and eloquent Peruvian, to whom I am attached by the strong bonds of family and motherland. I am referring to Victor Andres Belaunde. Victor Andres had the good fortune of witnessing the birth of the United Nations and 22 years later, this Organization, after having heard in this Hall his advocacy of world peace, saw him die. His last words were divine words and they have continually been repeated in this Hall—peace on earth, peace to the peoples of goodwill.
23.	Peace on the American continent, An intelligent and swift resolution to the problem of the Malvinas, Peace in Central America, that part of the continent so much in need of work and normalcy, nutrition and development. Peace in the three nations which converge on the Gulf of Fonseca—Nicaragua, Honduras and El Salvador—a Gulf which is clamouring for a development plan, because problems can be solved there which affect all three countries, be they related to fishing, energy, storage or port facilities. What a good thing it would be if the money spent on fratricidal discord could be used for constructive activities, so that these peoples which converge on that Gulf could meet each other there and celebrate a second independence—economic independence— and security against conflagration or fratricidal threats!
24.	I do not wish to speak at length about all the problems that are of concern to this Assembly, in which we find such distinguished representatives from all nations, but I did want to emphasize those two concerns of our hemisphere.
25.	However, there is something that I should like to add in these words of welcome to you, Mr. President, and that is the close co-operation at the executive level which you receive from another great Peruvian, Javier Perez de Cuellar. I believe that I will be forgiven if, as President of Peru, I do not conceal the pride I derive from the names I have mentioned, because that allows me, in fervently reiterating our adherence to the Charter of the United Nations, to say that Peru is in the United Nations not only in our repeated adherence to it, but also in our actions in it.


===== Session 40 - 1985 =====
Mr. President of the United Nations General Assembly and representative of Spain, a country in which the Latin American community asserts its roots, acknowledging it as a fundamental ingredient of its own identity.
Mr. Secretary-General, symbol of Peru's commitment to the international community and of our faith that the transformation of Peru is linked to change and justice in the world.
Representatives of all nations:
For some this is a ritual, a declarative and symbolic meeting. We have not lost faith, because we know that those who are listening to us are a bureaucratic agency, but rather that they fully assume their role as representatives of mankind in the face of selfishness, poverty and violence in our world.
Of course we could ask whether in its 40 years of existence the United Nations has fully achieved its purpose, whether peace really exists in the world. And we might answer that nuclear peace is but a balance of insecurity and terror, that this apparent peace expresses its tensions by shifting its conflicts to the poorest
countries; and that it conceals an unequal and unjust economic system in which the central nations dominate the others for their own benefit by manipulating interest rates, prices, wages and therefore wielding power in the poorer countries, in order to maintain profound injustices that generate violence.
But to say all this would be to repeat the litany that has so often been heard in this hall.
I have come here to state once again that in spite of this, the United Nations remains the highest representation of mankind and that we have come to it because we believe in the equality of human beings and of nations, and because we believe that history will not be determined by the laws of the marketplace and of conflict, but rather that its meaning will henceforth be the affirmation of freedom. Thus, our first words are an appeal for the democratization of this Organization which, in accordance with its Charter, is based on the principle of equality among its
members. but in which the Security Council is governed by the realities of the last great war and the five Powers possess a right of veto that is incompatible with that equality. That right of veto is a blot upon our Organization because it is an institutional recognition of force, and the vicious circle is completed because in order to eliminate the veto the agreement of the Council, on which those Powers with the veto right are represented, is necessary.
One group of countries, however strong, cannot contradict the universal nature of this Organization. No Power, however much it may contribute financially, can demand a weighted and contribution-linked vote in which each nation is valued on the basis of the amount of money it contributes. We prefer a poorer organization, a less bureaucratic one, but an organization prouder of its moral dignity. In this connection we would propose that the economic contribution of all countries be the same, because higher contributions by the richest must be rejected if they in turn require the mortgaging of our destiny.
The strength of the united Nations does not reside in the number of offices or functionaries that it may have throughout the world; the strength of the United Nations should reside in the moral power of the equality of all its Members and in its capacity to act without vetoes.
In this, which is the highest court of mankind, we commit ourselves to a bid for life and, without surrendering to defeatism, we proclaim that, while assemblies and words may not have conquered selfishness, we, the poor of the world, have not lost our hope in the meaning of history.
To those who use arrogant force, we respond in the words of the old Spanish philosopher: they will succeed but they will not convince. They may succeed through the power of their bombs and their money, but they will not convince the universal democracy of consciences, and in spite of them the hope for a better mankind will continue to be felt.
I" speak on behalf of a nation that is struggling, a nation that does not give up. I have not come here to repeat what has been said already of the world order and what all of us must do in the future to change it; I have come to state what we are doing at present, and the message that I bring to you is a message of determination. We believe in the solidarity of countries and in their common future, but today we affirm that action is the duty of all countries. That is what we are proposing in respect of each of the subjects on which I should like to dwell at this times the debt problem, human rights, drug trafficking and disarmament.
In connection with all these issues, we have but one message: we have the will to act here and now.
Many believe that Peru is a country of drugs, death and violation of human rights. I have cone here to say that there is much more to the truth. He are a part of the impoverished peoples of the earth, a part of Latin America, and our problems have as a root cause our link with the international economy. For lack of a national program of action, our country has been at the service of external interests and each of the economic cycles of this century has stemmed from changes in the international system.
Peru was at the beginning of this century a country that was primarily an exporter of raw materials at a time when these were required by the international economy. At that time the Andes region and its peasant population were kept under the landowner system. At the end of the Second World War, Peru began its process of industrialization, but this was the result of the expansion of world industry, whose transnational corporations sold their machinery and established their branches in the capital of my country.
Furthermore, when foreign foodstuffs were introduced in consumer markets the poverty of the peasants worsened, causing a greater exodus towards the cities.
In this framework, the world crisis meant that new adjustments were needed in Peru, when the richest countries moved towards protectionism and strove to collect their debts, we were forced to open up our borders and destroy our industries in order to buy from world industry, and also to recycle our debts, with ever-increasing rates of interest.
As a result of all this, a grave crisis is shaking my country. The disparity in regional development reflects the gap between the administrative industrial bloc and the marginal peasant and urban sector. Furthermore, the gap between rich are poor is widening. Our per capita production has gone back to levels comparable to those of 20 years ago and inflation and unemployment are on the increase.
This is the tragic situation which my country is now confronting, but Peru is a country that has made democracy effective by asserting its will. Peru does not want to be a ship adrift at the mercy of shifts in the international economy. Peru does not want to remain within this vicious circle, devaluing its currency because inflation increases when interest rates go up in order to compensate for previous devaluations. Peru has decided to manage its own economy and not be managed by it, and that is why democracy in my country is the concrete expression of our national will.
We know that to carry out a democratic revolution we must be anti-imperialist and fight against hegemonism. We know that transformation is not a national fact of life, but rather an international commitment to action.
That is why we are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and why we assert the unity of Latin America; that is why we seek to strengthen the Andean Pact and that is why we shall participate in all forums that affirm the solidarity of all peoples on earth.
In the face of today's crisis we cannot wait; we must act. We cannot go on talking and writing letters that the wealthy of the earth refuse to read. Our people cannot await action by the irresolute. Supranational organizations cannot become an impediment to the will of our people. That is why I have come before this Assembly to set forth what we in Peru are doing to ensure the establishment of a nationalist, democratic Government of the people.
We affirm as nationalism the right of our people to autonomous existence, the right to work, and to defend our industry from the liberal opening up that in recent years has overwhelmed it. We affirm as nationalism the recovery of our natural wealth.
Here one fundamental issue arises; the foreign debt, as a major hindrance to the development and well-being of our peoples. The foreign debt expresses a relationship between the rich and the poor of the earth; its root cause is the imbalance of the prices of raw materials and manufacturing and industrial resources.
Throughout the centuries the countries that are today underdeveloped have financed the mercantile and industrial economics of those that are now wealthy countries, and in the last few years we have fallen into debt in order to finance a model of industrialization and consumption imported from abroad. As a result, the debt has become a cause of conflict between the poor South, of which our American continent is a part, and the industrial, imperialist, financial North. This must not be confused with an issue that pits East against West in a conflict of hegemony.
Secondly, the original indebtedness has been inflated by the application of usurious interest rates. Interest has been, in the central countries, not only the cost of productive capital, but also a tool for the procurement of capital to cover the deficit produced by military expenditures. That is why two thirds of the America's debt has been re-exported to the banks by the dominant sectors of our countries. And if the effects of unequal trade are added to the interest rates, we see that these have amounted in real terms to nearly 25 per cent.
Thirdly, the over-valuation of the dollar as a currency of exchange based upon the permanent devaluation suffered by our own currencies has readied, according to some estimates, nearly 40 per cent, and we are required to repay our debts in that currency.
I give the following dramatic example from ray own country, we purchase corn from the United States to feed chickens with which we are repaying in kind our debt to the Soviet Union. Thus, a country that is threatened by hunger has to repay its foreign debt with food. We therefore become a stopover for products that travel from one Power to another.
If to that we add the fact that the rich countries have been applying protectionist fcKade policies, by closing their markets to our products, we can see why the debt situation has become untenable for our economy.
We must ask: what has been the response to the debt problem in recent years?
First of all new credits have been requested to repay earlier debts, and higher interest rates and commissions have been accepted. The result has been more indebtedness than before. The anti-trust laws of the united States have been violated by the banks, which have joined in cartels to avoid free competition in the placement of credits. Likewise, federal credit laws have also been violated as banks have renegotiated with countries that they know are bankrupt? solely in order to ensure the payment of interest, waiving the payment of principal, which is the capital of the depositors.
Secondly, and as a condition for this financial merry-go-round, the harmful terms of the International Monetary Fund have been accepted, directing our countries* economies towards debt repayment.
The letters of intent that express these terms are in fact letters of colonial submission to the prevailing injustice. While the richest countries close their borders, we must open ours, thus destroying our industrial facilities and indebting ourselves in order to continue to buy from foreign industry. A second factor of the letters of intent is the requirement that we devalue our currency in order to maintain the external competitiveness of our products; that, in other words, means that we are increasing the amount of work we must accomplish for the payment of our debt. The third factor stipulates that the domestic interest rate must be linked to devaluation, thus promoting inflation in a permanent vicious circle of unemployment and productive paralysis.
The International Monetary Fund explains all these results as the consequence of excessive expenditures by the State and State participation in the economy. The Fund's final instruction is, therefore, fiscal austerity. Investments and social expenditures oust thus to cut back in order to guarantee the timely servicing of the foreign debt,, These are how the letters of intent have been applied in recent years for the impoverishment of our peoples. As I have said, rather than being letters of intent these are in fact letters of colonial submission to injustice.
Furthermore, we say that the International Monetary Fund does not have the moral authority to preach austerity in our country, because during the seventies, when it was necessary to place petrodollars in credits for poor countries, the International Monetary Fund promoted indebtedness. In those years, it encouraged waste and unproductive investments; it was an accomplice of excessive growth in public admire in is tradition. The International Monetary Fund, moreover, demands austerity only of the poorest countries; it favors the most powerful nation on earth. Since" the non-convertibility of the dollar was declared in 1971, the United States has been the only country that has been able indefinitely to issue currency to cover its own deficits. What has been the role of the International Monetary Fund in adjusting the united States economy?
As President of Peru, I announce that at the next meeting of the International Monetary Fund, in Seoul, we shall demand decisions on the reform of the monetary system and the distribution of world liquidity in a fairer manner. Otherwise, we are not interested in belonging, nor is it to our advantage to belong, to an agency that benefits a single country.
We therefore reiterate that the International Monetary Fund shall not be the intermediary between us and our creditors. In the dialog with our creditors we shall not accept as a pre-condition the mortgaging of our sovereign economic independence nor the imposition of internal political conditions through the signing of letters of intent with negative terras for our people. I repeat before the whole world that my responsibility as Head of State is to the Peruvian people, that the Peruvian people is the primary creditor as far as I as concerned and that the Peruvian Government has been elected by the people, not by some financial cartel that wishes to satisfy its own appetite.
In conclusion, we affirm that in current conditions the foreign debt - as a result of its unjust origins and because of the methods by which it has been increased - cannot be paid by any of our countries, because the effort to service it on time will keep our democracies trapped in misery and violence. Thus, we are faced with a dramatic choice: either debt or democracy. That is the crossroads faced by Latin America at present; that is the crossroads at which the poor world now finds itself. We must decide what road to take.
We believe that the objective must be the unity of the debtor countries and a radical change in the present situation. To that end, we need to harmonize our positions with those of the countries of Africa and Asia, and to co-ordinate Latin American action. One hundred and sixty years of independent life in Latin America have shown us that the isolated development of each country is a model doomed to failure. None the less, we persist in our solitude. As in the title of the great novel, our countries have lived through 160 years of solitude. Exporters of commodities, purchasers of factories, debtors: we have continued on the same path, because the siren songs of the International Monetary Fund and of the banks beckon one and all towards isolated solutions which are only fading hopes or letters of intent that are immediately unheeded.
We call for unity on the part of the Non-Aligned Movement and on the part of the Latin American countries, unity on this subject is a specific test for non-alignment, because political dialog will serve not only to deal with debt servicing but also to place the international economic order in a new context. Thus the debt which is the result of our weakness will be the instrument of our strength and an impetus to our unity. That is the great route to follow: unity. But Peru cannot wait for a series of meetings without concrete results. We shall not fall into the vicious circle of waiting for unity in the future and not doing anything until then. We do not believe in waiting passively; rather, we shall wait actively, not only by proposing the maximum of audacious actions but also be committing ourselves to a concrete struggle.
Therefore, we have taken a decision that we shall maintain: Peru will assign to its debt only one out of every ten dollars, one tenth of what is paid to it for its work and its exports. This is a responsible and revolutionary decision, because it is the decision of a poor country that imports foodstuffs and industrial inputs, whose debt is with Western banks, and which has suffered and is suffering from the pressure by the International Monetary Fund. Our responsibility in this decision is to face up to its consequences.
We do not have a privileged relationship with any Power, because we do not struggle against dependency by being the instrument of another hegemony. We do not adopt any spectacular positions, advocating non-payment while repaying one part of the world punctually, and repaying with strategic sovereignty a substantial debt that, for that reason, is not demanded under pressure by the other part of the world.
We do not want, in a Messianic way, to export a 10 per cent model of payment. All we want to do is prove that a major step can be taken and that if many others decide to take it, we can open up the avenues to the future. In the future, if we unite, other solutions will also exist, but, between the rhetoric of great speeches and the realism of decisions, we have chosen the latter. For, if our relationship with the industrialized world is expressed through debt, it has its historical origin in the unjust difference between the prices of imports and those of exports.
Today prices of copper, silver, fishmeal and oil exports are lower while real interest rates rise. We are convinced that by linking these two aspects we can change these asymmetrical relations. And this is the way in which we are staking on the future and setting our own terms of payment. If interest is the cost of money within a given term, then by seating a maximum payment the term is extended and by being extended interest rates are in fact varied.
Someone has hastened to say that what, we are doing is accumulating more debt. But that passive pessimism does not distinguish between two different elements: that of the creditor, for whom interest accumulates, and that of the debtor, who by setting a maximum payment is laying down his own rules, independent of the accumulation of debt that the creditor presumes he has. This means that the uncertainty of the future becomes a problem for the creditor, rather than for us.
Under traditional terms, in 1986 we should have to pay $2.4 billion to service the debt, plus $3.1 billion owed from the year before, which would in all represent a commitment of $5.5 billion payable in 1986. This amounts to 160 per cent of our exports, estimated at $3.4 billion for next year.
In accordance with our decision, the maximum amount to be paid would be $340 million which would be allocated on a priority basis to the international financial agencies and to government-to-government credits, because we must achieve our economic autonomy. But at the same time we must accept the fact that we require a technological exchange with the world in order to support our development. And an important element of government-to-government co-operation and credits from international financial agencies, granted on favorable terms, is the fact that they must be repaid.
Furthermore, Peru is a responsible country that does not simply blame its foreign debt on the international economy and the banks, we are a people seeking a revolutionary transformation and, as such, must make a critical assessment of our own history and acknowledge that due to a previous lack of unity and awareness and because we allowed ourselves to be dominated by groups linked to foreign interests, we have responsibilities that we must assume.
When the time comes for decision, Peru will continue to maintain its aims until circumstances change, protectionist barriers are brought down, the true value of our exports is recognized, and we regain the fruits of our labor.
I know that the response :o this decision may be the imposition of sanctions and amendments or, as has already been announced, that the Peruvian debt may be declared value-impaired in October. As President of Peru, I wish to say that it is not necessary to wait until October to declare this. The Peruvian debt is already value-impaired here and now. We acknowledge this. But what we should ask ourselves is how and.by whom was our economy impaired and what historical answer must we give to this situation.
That is why our second objective is the complete democratization of our society as a way to resolve the crisis vf are confronting.
We consider the human being to be use highest priority of society and state and we affirm that democracy should be initiated and based on suffrage and freedom of speech.
There can be no democracy without participation. There can be no socialism without freedom. Universal suffrage cannot be replaced by a sectoral or corporative vote in the work place.
Universal suffrage cannot be replaced by a Messianic attitude where one exponent becomes for decades the possessor of truth and history and dooms his people to disability and silence.
Universal suffrage and freedom cannot and must not be sacrificed to the offer of bread that justifies dynasties and national mortgages.
We firmly believe that it is possible to establish governments that are governments of bread and freedom and that a contrary attitude, whatever its motto or support, is nothing but tyranny.
But we believe that democracy must also be based on an equal distribution of social resources, a harmonious development of regions and of economic sectors. Democracy must be an economic model that breaks through the vicious circle, that isolates a centralist industry in the face of marginal agriculture, in which millions of Peruvians are doomed to poverty.
Democracy must be the universalization of the right to work, to health, to education, to participation. Democracy must be the genuine and only possible road to socialism. In this point the Peruvian Constitution is original. Where other constitutions begin by defining the state, ours begins by speaking of the human person.
Front this standpoint, I wish to approach the second subject of my statement, the painful issue of terrorism and subversion, that in recent years has caused thousands of deaths, thousands of injuries and enormous material losses.
While repudiating totalitarian and dogmatic terrorism, we also reject the concept that the means justify the and, since such ethics lead to the acceptance of the concept that might is right.
We will fight subversion with resolute firmness but with respect for the law and for human rights. We acknowledge that subversive action has been possible not only because of lack of foresight and the absence of a well-planned social and economic policy, but because subversion has been nourished by the exasperating poverty in which millions of neglected compatriots are living.
It is no coincidence that terrorism has arisen in the most economically depressed zones of the country. It arose in what we have called the Andean trapezoid, whose population has been subjected from colonial times to exploitative bGdSism and to a rigid centralist system. Millions of Peruvians were left mired in a subworld of oppression. United by the same language, mainly Quechua, united by the same culture - the Andean - and united by the same system of agricultural production, these Peruvians were neglected and injured by a state that never represented them.
Ayacucho, the region where terrorism initiated its activities, is in that Andean trapezoid. In Ayacucho, out of every thousand births, over 270 die before the age of one, whereas the average in Latin America is 73 per thousand.
In Ayacucho, 74 per cent of the population is illiterate. In some places only one out of every hundred houses has water and only five out of every hundred has electricity.
That is Ayacucho, the historic center of the peoples of America, where the great final battle for independence was waged. And it is precisely by taking advantage of such flagrant injustices that terrorism found a fertile ground for profiting from the despair of the people by pitting them, precariously armed, against the forces of the State. That is why we cannot pay the foreign debt at a rate in excess of 10 per cent of our exports; that is why we call for regional agreement in order to stop spending millions of dollars on weapons, millions that could save the neglected from poverty. For the incidence of terrorism and violence also feeds upon political circumstances, and in order to fight it we must understand it as not only the action of a Messianic and totalitarian group. We must take political action and make an effort to incorporate these millions of human beings .into civilization by establishing democratic institutions and a State presence and by reclaiming agriculture and considering farmers as the very sustenance of our nationality.
Therefore, a close relationship exists between our economic history, our foreign debt and the poverty that promotes violence in the Andes. That is why I have dwelt at length on this subject, for in the case of my own country we may see the immediate future of other Latin American countries if poverty continues to increase and if advantage is taken of it by totalitarian and extremist forces.
Thus, we are convinced that only a new international economic order can open the way for a lasting and democratic solution to violence. All of this, of course, must be accompanied by vigorous action that will firmly oppose subversives, but within the framework of law.
Our bona fides of democratic introduction to the world is our respect for life and for the rights of individuals. Nothing justifies torture, disappearances or summary executions; barbarism must not be fought with barbarism.
True, the action of public order against anonymous and collective subversion produces reactions of irrational aggressivity, but in no case can that justify the suppression of facts or permitting such acts to remain unpunished. That is why the Peruvian Government has taken drastic decisions in recent days. He will energetically defend democracy with the law and with social justice, in the conviction that we are acting in the name of life.
Because we act in the name of life, we believe that politics must be an ethical reflection of respect and of morality. Thus far, the expansion of economic interests has governed the world, sacrificing peoples and individual human beings. Corporations, banks and super-Powers have oriented the world towards serving the needs of production and consumption because by controlling consumption and publicity human beings can be made to serve the logic of that economy.
I should like here to move to the third subject of my statement: narcotics traffic as an activity that corrupts institutions and degrades man. We believe that drug consumption is but the exacerbation of consumption as a logic of capital. To consume, to consume to the point of self-destruction, is the caricature of the economic system. The same greed for profit that dehumanizes capital is reflected in drug addiction, that is, the consumption of dissatisfaction. Drugs are thus revealed to be a different state of consumer capitalism.
The only raw material to have increased in value is cocaine. The only successful multinational business originating in our countries has been drug trafficking. The most advanced efforts at Andean integration have been made by drug traffickers. But to what is this due? According to liberal economic theory, production is regulated by demand, and it so happens that the main market is in the United States of America. For Peru, drug consumption is not a national problem, but X can say that, in spite of that, within the first 50 days of our Administration we have dealt the most successful blows.to the international drug traffic. Twenty-two airports, three helicopter landing strips, five long-range light aircraft, hundreds of kilograms of drugs and eight large factories have been
discovered and seized. All of that means that the consumption of drugs in the United States of America will suffer a yearly reduction of approximately 80 tons, worth $5.6 billion. He could therefore ask the United States Administration, since we have done this in 50 days, what it is doing for the human rights of individuals who keel over in Grand Central Station and so many other locations. He might well ask when the United States Administration will act in a legal and Christian fashion to eradicate and condemn drug consumption here in the United States, which is the primary market thereby distorting our agricultural life.
A liberal economist would recommend we keep our hands off this risky issue, but we believe that the State cannot be - indifferent to corruption and vice. That is why we consider the fight against drug trafficking to be our duty, because it is a crime against mankind. He are not doing it for the granting of a loan; we are not doing it to receive assistance of a few million dollars that is	us
and that we will not accept in the future; we are doing it because our own conscience is enough to defend youth, whether Peruvian, American or.from any other part of the world.
However, I affirm from this rostrum that another and equally serious crime against humanity is increasing in interest rates, reducing in the prices of raw materials and its wasting of economic resources in death-dealing technologies while hundreds of millions of human beings live in poverty and are encouraged to acts of violence.
Lastly, I should like to refer to the position of Peru with regard to the rest of the world, which brings me to the fourth part of my statement. He are Latin Americans, and we are fighting for the integration of our continent in its anti-imperialist stance, because only in this way will we have a respected voice on the subject of the debt; only in this way will we be able to strengthen the multilateral treatment of the major problems facing the world; only in this way will we avoid the extension of the borders of the great Powers towards us.
As a route towards that integration we support the peace efforts of the Contadora Group to safeguard the sovereignty and self-determination of the peoples of Central America, and as a committed continent we have, with other countries, constituted the Front for Support of Contadora, willing and united, ready to be present if a Power attempts to violate with its weapons the sovereignty of any country, for we understand that in that region the destiny of Latin Americans is also at stake.
We affirm the need to strengthen the Andean Group, by working for a new and more up-to-date Protocol, and by proposing the expansion and more effective application of the Andean Reserve Fund, a financial organization which has already surpassed the International Monetary Fund in its disbursements within the region.
We wish to enter into bilateral compensated trade agreements that could free us from the use of hard currencies, and affirm our economic integration. We have already taken the first steps towards an agreement of this type with Brazil.
But one subject now stands out on the international scene, and that is the arms race. We are a peace-loving nation, respectful of international treaties, and we are not part of the arras race. We do not represent the strategy of any Power, nor have we been infected by the egocentric view of security that characterizes the big Powers. For them, their own security involves the insecurity of others, but the arms race results in the insecurity of all.
That is the logic and the neurosis of the weak. We believe that the best defense is an affirmation of the nation as a people, and that the social requirements of our countries mean that we must limit our expenditures on arms. That is why we propose a regional agreement in Latin America for a substantial reduction of expenditures on weapons and will spare no effort to achieve this.
I am convinced that more human beings have died because the money channeled into weapons was not used to help them, than the sum of all the dead from all the wars that have occurred in our history.
Each bullet, which in 99 per cent of all cases is used in shooting practice, represents a food ration that could have been given to a child to save him from death. But today, the sale of weapons that swiftly become obsolete is a very important part of world trade, and that renewable technology involves not only competition between our peoples but also high earnings for the weapon-selling nations which are jointly responsible for the crisis, and for the arms dealers. These professional death dealers are the promoters of intrigue between our nations and spur on our rivalries.
In this, as in other subjects, we have not limited ourselves to proposing collective action while waiting passively for a consensus to emerge. We believe in consensus, but we also believe in our own determination. The determination of each of our countries must be renewed: determination makes it possible for a country to set a maximum limit for debt payment; determination that compels us to subversion while respecting human rights; determination compels us to fight drug trafficking without asking for compensation. Determination also requires us to act. We have made a substantial reduction in the purchase of highly sophisticated war planes agreed with France. And, while we are not paying our debt, neither shall we use our money for the benefit of the industry of death. On the initiative of our own navy, we have dismantled war vessels, and our armed forces, in the context of a new world, are being oriented towards action for the development of the nation.
We are moved by any fear of being weak towards others. We do not seek to arm ourselves and to achieve a false sense of power in regard to others. We have confidence in the peoples of the world. We do not feel attacked by anyone, and with that confidence, and sustained by our willpower, we are ready to take action consistent with the principles I have outlined.
The poor peoples of the earth are not enemies to one another. But we do have a common enemy that has penetrated our borders and our history with poverty, with domination and with injustice. It is imperialism which divides us and which trades on our lack of unity.
In the face of this imperialism, we affirm our participation in and identification with the Non-Aligned Movement, with its authentic and substantive originality because we are not instruments in the bipolar strategy of the big Powers.
We do not believe our peoples can in any way benefit from the Manichean East-West conflict. The only result of this conflict of fundamentalist views, is the outbreak of limited conflicts in the countries of the periphery.
We affirm the role of the principles of non-alignment maintained by Nehru, Tito and Nasser,, and in Latin America by Haya de la Torre since 1924. He proposed as a principle of anti-imperialist action the integration of Latin America to build democratic socialism. On our continent, integration is the guarantee of nonr-alignment, which does not consist of freedom from one hegemony in order to sustain a natural alliance with the countries of the East.
This is why I reiterate from this forum that we are poor but dignified people, free and ready to unite, and that in the face of the armed power and wealth of the super-Powers we exalt the moral power of justice.
We call on a united Europe to reflect upon itself and to realize that it has more in common with the poor nations than with bipolar hegemonism. Europe is also a field of political and military strategy, its lands bristling with their own and foreign nuclear weapons; it is undermined by insecurity, and its economic development is, regardless of its own wishes, dependent on the technology and economic orientation of the great Powers.
And in the broader framework of all countries, we affirm the interdependence of North and South. We believe that the strategy defined in the 1950s and 1960s has not been implemented, and is still confining itself to such traditional categories as South-East Asia, the Middle East, the North Atlantic and the Caribbean, thus ignoring the growing globalization of decisions and of conflicts.
That is why we also address the peoples of the industrialized countries and of the major Powers, reminding them of our common humanity.
And here I should like to present a greeting to the American people, to the people of Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln, Roosevelt, Kennedy and Luther King, and my tribute to its democratic conscience and the outstanding individuals here who understand Latin America and the Third World without any imperialist zeal.
And from this rostrum we greet mankind, all mankind everywhere, particularly the poorest in Africa and in Asia, who use their consciences as weapons so as not to be the passive objects of an irrational course of history and.an irrational world.
My greetings go out to those who raise their eyes to the future and to justice.
We have come here to say that, in poverty but with dignity, Peru has begun to walk forward towards peace, independence and justice. In the name of the poor of the earth, in the name of God, because it is the hour for action and the time for resolve.


===== Session 41 - 1986 =====
 In extending to you, sir, the greetings of the Government and people of Peru, I have to say how pleased we are that a representative of the third world is presiding over this session of the General Assembly, at a time when the international atmosphere is rife with signs of regression. I am convinced that, imbued with the valiant tradition of autonomy to which Bangladesh has been faithful since its dramatic attainment of independence, you will be able to guide the deliberations of this forum in the best and most just way.
I should also like to express my country's appreciation of the firm yet gentle guidance given to this Assembly during its historic fortieth session by the experienced Spanish diplomat, Ambassador Jaime de Pinies.
I do not believe that the fact of being a compatriot and, more than a colleague, a disciple, of our Secretary-General should inhibit me from associating Peru with the warm tributes paid to him by all the Members of the United Nations for his far-reaching, sustained efforts on behalf of international peace, security and development. For five years now a good part of our common hopes have been reposed in him and he has discharged that enormous responsibility not only with wisdom and intelligence but also with noteworthy distinction, in circumstances that have frequently been adverse.
From the balance sheet of statements made by some hundred Heads of State on the occasion of the fortieth anniversary of the United Nations at the last General Assembly, a shared vision of disturbing trends at the international level emerges. On that occasion President Alan Garcia of Peru speaking from this same rostrum, drew the international community's attention to the existence of problems of exceptional seriousness, such as the foreign debt, the arms race, drugs trafficking and terrorism, which threaten the survival of states and undermine the very basis of world coexistence, and which are certainly a reflection of the present unjust international order, of the deterioration of the system of multilateral co-operation and its growing replacement by power politics.
The year gone by reveals the worsening of such problems, and the consequent need to insist that they be dealt with and to issue a call for action. Peru sees a new turn of events in which confrontation between the blocs of world power has ceased to be exclusively strategic and military, but increasingly technological in nature and directly and more deeply related to the economic system of world domination.
The big nations, because of the demands of that confrontation, encourage expenditures and large deficits in their own economies, which, in the last analysis, need to be financed by any means possible, thus increasing the cost of money and making the economic system that they control function as a giant suction mechanism.
In this new model of domination, based on an unproductive creditor mentality through rates of interest, the way in which loans are allocated and the predominance of a national currency as the basis of international liquidity are at the root of the burgeoning debt and of the absurd situation in which the developing world is financing the struggle between the big Powers for international power at the cost of the poverty of our peoples.
NS/at	A/41/PV.5
17
(Mr. Wagner Tizon, Peru)
Given this situation, the Peruvian Government took a historic decision, the validity of which has asserted itself increasingly on the international field, where no one doubts that it is not right to satisfy transnational capital with the sacrifice of our peoples and that it is irrational to enter into new loans only to pay prior interest and debts.
The Peruvian Government has established the principle that, as we are paid for our exports and labour, thus shall we pay our debt without sacrificing the development and basic needs of our people, and in a measure of sovereign reaffirmation we set a ceiling of 10 per cent of our export income for debt-servicing. Thus we have been able to implement an independent and national economic policy which has made it possible for us to avoid a decline in the value of our currency, to reduce inflation, to lower interest rates, to reactivate the economy and employment, and to stimulate social expenditure by the State.
This decision has been answered by the International Monetary Fund, which declared Peru ineligible for new credits from that institution. The fact that the Monetary Fund continues to use anachronistic criteria to apply that measure is a demonstration of its persistence in ignoring the seriousness of the problem of the foreign debt.
On the other hand, the international community, fully aware of the explosive political nature of the problem, has chosen to inscribe the question of the foreign debt crisis and development on the agenda of the General Assembly, thus recognizing the competence of the United Nations to seek a just, effective and lasting solution.
The debt today characterizes the historic stage when the transnational creditors and seeking to lead our countries towards extreme dependence, preventing them not only from defining the priorities of their development processes, but also from drawing up their own political plans.

The foreign debt is therefore a retrograde step in the evolution of international relations because it tends to neutralize the State in its very essence.
This situation obliges us to make a profoundly political assessment of the duty of the United Nations to oversee the future of the international community and to stem a trend which is so anarchic as to be a destructive element in the very system of international relations.
The warning that the President of Peru sounded a year ago on the dangerous threat that drugs trafficking poses to contemporary civilization and the primary responsibility of the consumer countries was welcomed and confirmed by leaders the world over, and has become a central subject of national debate and a central subject in the political life of world consumer centers. Convinced that in order to confront this scourge, joint action is necessary Peru has entered into bilateral agreements with neighboring countries and at the Andean level we have promoted and signed the Rodrigo Lara Bonilia Convention, which bears the name of the Colombian minister, martyr in the struggle against drugs trafficking and which is open to accession by other Latin American countries.
Furthermore, my country carried out the so-called Candor Operations, which struck a harsh blow at drugs traffickers by destroying sophisticated clandestine laboratories, landing strips, and by capturing planes and boats as well as modern weaponry in order to fulfill the commitment assumed by my country towards the youth of the world.
With the moral authority conferred upon us by these actions, we urge the adoption of effective measures in the great consumer centers, as demand in those centers is primarily responsible for the existence of the narcotics traffic in accordance with the old economic law that demand creates its own supply.
In disarmament debates we can see that in this nuclear era our civilization, for the first time in history, is coexisting with the means of its own destruction.
This threat is more imminent today for two reasons. First, because the balance of terror, always precarious but thus far a real balance, is being bypassed in the strategic concepts of the super-Powers, while delays, in their arms-control talks have become disconcertingly long.
Secondly, because the planned leap towards the militarization of outer space would not only exponentially expand the nuclear threat and its cost, but in certain sectors is being adduced as an anti-nuclear panacea.
This bring us into an extraordinarily unstable international situation in which disarmament efforts may be frozen altogether, and in which the process of conventional and regional disarmament is also held back.
Peru is not a nuclear country, nor does it wish to become one. Fortunately, Latin America has with great foresight chosen the path of denuclearization. This is why we firmly ask that the super-Powers do their duty towards mankind's future by halting the arms race and dismantling their nuclear arsenals.
This is what mankind wants. This was the appeal made from Harare by the 101 Heads of state of the Non-illigned Movement. This is the demand of the international community represented in this Assembly, which cannot abandon its right and duty to protect life.
When President Alan Garcia took the initiative in July last year in sponsoring a regional agreement to limit the procurement of arms, which has already received valuable support from neighboring countries, and when he announced then, as he also announced two months ago, a unilateral reduction of arms purchases, he was doing no more than to translate into reality in the context of Latin America that which we are seeking from the nuclear Powers - the right to life and development* We want to give a new dimension to defense needs on the basis of new concepts of regional security, based on a system of relations characterized by the dynamics of co-operation and not of conflict, thereby providing what is needed for the well-being of our people.
That is why Peru also offered to be headquarters of the United Nations Regional center for Peace, Disarmament and Development, which can foster in Latin America a collective regional awareness of those objectives, which are of universal interest.
Terrorism is today another irrational phenomenon, which the international community must tackle with resolve. Our primary obligation must be to reach, within the framework of the United Nations, legally binding agreements clearly dissociating States from terrorist activities, whether overt or covert, and effectively punishing those who promote terrorism. Unless that first goal is achieved, the political objective of the systematic blackmail and destabilization pursued by international terrorism will be promoted whether through contributing to the erosion of democratic societies and their replacement by repressive police States or through the collapse of the international legal order as people take the law into their own hands.
In Peru, which has for some years suffered from the criminal action of terrorism as a misguided tool used to advance alleged social demands, our policy is clear: energetically to combat that armed fanaticism, but within the framework of law and respect for human rights, and if human rights are violated to punish in an
 exemplary manner those responsible, in such a way as to maintain intact our democratic order.
Therefore, it has always been disappointing that some democratic States represented here permit - in a mistaken interpretation of freedom of opinion -expressions of support, however insignificant, for those that have chosen the path of fratricidal violence in a democracy as bread and pluralist as Peru's. This grave legal and moral distortion must be corrected. We urge democratic countries to rectify their legislation, and we urge the international community to adopt clear norms repudiating those absurdly lenient attitudes towards crime and destruction.
I referred to those grave problems because I sincerely believe that they all have alarmingly destructive consequences which no State can confront alone, and because they really amount to a global crisis in international relations resulting in a weakening of the system of multilateral co-operation, a resurgence of power politics, the erosion of the international legal order, a recrudescence of local conflicts and a sharpening of the crisis in North-South relations.
In this context it is clear that the so-called crisis of multilateralism is much more than a crisis of one form of international co-operation. What is at stake is the very validity of the system of co-operation and collective security, the alternative being to have to accept the legitimization of power as an instrument of international politics.
That is why, in the specific context of the United Nations, any reform must strengthen the first of those two options - that is, the Organization's role as the body responsible for promoting peace, security, co-operation and the solution of the problems of development in a framework of responsibility and collective action. In that regard, any reform to improve the efficiency of the United Nations and to make more democratic the taking of decisions can only be welcomed by the international community. But if the Organization's distressing financial problems led us into situations that were incompatible with making the system more democratic, we should have no hesitation in choosing a more democratic and independent, but at the same time more austere, system giving no State decision-making power over the Organization's fate on the basis of its economic contribution.
Present conditions demand that international peace and security be strengthened. In the Middle East the continuation of the conflict and the delay in starting a process of negotiations serve only to increase violence. A just and lasting solution, with rights and guarantees for all, can be based only on the merging of three substantive elements: the recovery by the Palestinian people of all its rights, including the right to form its own free and sovereign State; withdrawal from all occupied territories* and recognition of the right of Israel and all the States of the area to live in peace within secure and internationally recognized borders, in accordance with the provisions of General Assembly and Security Council resolutions.
Complying with the principle of non-intervention is a basic obligation of international coexistence and the indispensable partner of the right to self-determination .
We are in favor of an urgent solution in Afghanistan, through the withdrawal of all foreign troops and respect for the independence and non-alignment of the Afghan people. Similarly, we support the immediate withdrawal of foreign occupation forces from Cyprus and its right to sovereignty and territorial integrity. We propose a negotiated political solution in Kampuchea, including the prompt withdrawal of foreign troops and the safeguarding of its national integrity and independence.
In Central America acts of intervention constitute the main obstacle to the peace efforts of the Con tad or a Group and the Support Group. But Contadora is committed before history to peace in Central America, and its efforts will not cease. It is essential to continue to work for the establishment of conditions conducive to peace agreements. It is therefore essential that an end be put to all acts of intervention, coercion and harassment that can rekindle violence and cause an escalation of the conflict.
In the context of that serious problem the Peruvian Government clearly reaffirms its solidarity with the people and Government of Nicaragua with regard to any act of intervention or aggression. we demand an immediate end to the military and paramilitary activities in and against Nicaragua and respect for international legality, as enshrined in the recent advisory opinion of the Inter national Court of Justice.
In the South Atlantic the continuation of the British military presence in the Malvinas and the permanent danger of an escalation of tension make it essential that the negotiations called for by the General Assembly start soon with a view to reaching a definitive solution to the problem, with respect for the inalienable rights of Argentinian sovereignty.
In southern Africa the last battles against colonialism and racism are being waged. The peoples and nations of sisterly Africa must know that not only history is on their side; they also have with them all of us who uphold racial equality and the right to independence and the freedom of peoples.
As an expression of that militant solidarity, the Government of Peru has established diplomatic relations with the South West Africa People's Organization (SWAFO), which is in the vanguard of the struggle and the legitimate representative of the people of Namibia. Peru's participation in the machinery for action created in Harare bears witness to the fact that we likewise fully join in the commitment made at the eighth Summit Conference of the non-aligned countries to give all the support and help necessary to SWAFO, the liberation movements of South Africa and the front-line States in a struggle in which - however much it may be impeded by selfishness, arrogance and obduracy - victory is now seen on the horizon. We are deeply concerned at the negative trend in the international situation. None the less, we are encouraged by the conviction that we are not alone in our struggle, we see ever growing political trends within the industrialized countries against war, the use of force and acts of intervention - in other words, against any type of imperialist action. But the greatest encouragement canes from our own strength, from our peoples, from their indomitable fight for a more just, more free world, from their capacity to sacrifice, to do without, in order to uphold our struggle for economic independence and from our potential for collective action as a factor of social change in international relations.
We, the non-aligned countries, constitute an important force in the present-day world. The fact that the Yalta and Potsdam Agreements did not remain petrified in time, that the cold war did not succeed in dividing the world into rigid zones of influence, that colonialism did not live on in the dreams of the colonizers, that the United Nations ceased to be the exclusive instrument of the Powers is largely thanks to the role played by the Non-Aligned Movement in its 25 years of existence.
The Eighth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held in Zimbabwe, strengthened this process and reaffirmed the full validity of the Non-Aligned Movement as a valid choice for our peoples in reaffirming their independence and asserting their destiny. It is more necessary than ever before that the non-aligned countries, most of which have experienced a colonial past and which are now confronting an unequal structure of political and economic power, fulfill the historic duty of bolstering our unity and overcoming the problems that stand between our peoples and the better and more just world to which they aspire.
Peru is fully committed and dedicated to that shared undertaking in brotherly solidarity with all the peoples of the world with whom we share the same devotion to peace, freedom, democracy and justice.


===== Session 42 - 1987 =====
﻿
Mr. President, I wish to offer you greetings from the people and Government of Peru and to express my pleasure at the fact that you have been elected to guide the deliberations of the highest forum of the international community. Your dedication to the process of international understanding is the best guarantee of the successful accomplishment of your task. I must also may how much we encourage, how much we appreciate, and how grateful we are to our Secretary-General, whose unanimous re-election is the best tribute the international community can offer to his selfless work for international peace and security.
We are living through a dangerous period of deterioration in the international system, a fact which makes it imperative to establish a new rationality and strengthen the machinery available, so that the solutions to the world's great problems may be dealt with properly on the multilateral level. We are particularly concerned at the crisis of the United Nations system in which, above and beyond purely financial and substantive factors, we perceive attempts to weaken the Organization, to compromise its independence and to neutralize its role as a negotiating forum for major international issues.
Attempts are thus being made to erode multilateralism and thereby deprive the developing countries of the world's decision-making processes. Attempts are being made to do this in such a way that the relevant bodies will not be able to play their proper role, not merely as a group of operational bodies working in co-operation, but as factors of change in the very foundations of the system, and instruments for the attainment of a democratised international order.
Ours is an Organization with an imbalance, to the detriment of the developing countries. The imbalance is expressed through the veto in the Security Council as well as through financial domination, which has the effect of an additional veto, and through the concentration - an almost hereditary concentration - of the main posts in the Organization in a group of countries.
Therefore, any reform, far from increasing the inequalities in the United Nations, should, on the contrary, effectively democratise it, resolve its financial problems without political mortgages, and consolidate its functional independence, in order to enable it to achieve its great objectives of peace and development. 

What is required is a new concept of the United Nations system, one that would enable it to respond to the challenge of structural change experienced by international relations in the post-industrial society; so that it may be able to give direction to the emerging trends and avoid the threat to the third world of the establishment of more serious dependence and the distortion of basic elements of the nation-State.
For this purpose it is imperative to bring about a collective process of reflection and diagnosis that will make it possible to determine a new approach to the institutional structure of the international system  to review and revise the now obsolete schemes of the post-war period; and to anticipate the requirements of a new international dynamism.
We are living in a period of what promises to be a new stage in the disarmament process. The recent agreements between the United States and the Soviet Union give us encouraging signs, for the first time, of the reversal of the fatal arms race. We are inspired by the hope that the universal conscience in favour of peace and disarmament - which motivated the Harare message of the Heads of State of the non-aligned countries - will in the end triumph over the egocentric visions of security, which still cause many to spend great resources to win an impossible war, instead of making a reality of a peace without victories, based on the full realization and understanding of international social justice.
Let us trust that this progress will also help to usher in substantial progress in the total banning of nuclear tests, the prevention of the militarization of space, the strengthening of multilateral negotiations with regard to other aspects of disarmament, and the releasing of resources for economic and social development. In the regional and sub regional area, we are persevering in the organization of convergent efforts to promote development through the social reorientation of the resources allocated to defence expenditures, an ongoing process now, which is conducive to the strengthening of regional security, based on a new dynamic of co-operation, Integration and solidarity. We believe that the zones of peace can serve to strengthen international security and help in regional development work. In this area my country is in favour of a zone of peace in the southern Pacific. 

At the centre of this concern is the indissoluble relationship between disarmament and development and its connection with a democratic and fully integrated concept of security. Despite frustrations, the recent International Conference on the subject has offered us a valuable opportunity to clarify concepts and open a debate which, we hope, will soon be universal and sufficiently imaginative to establish appropriate ways and means to make this relationship effective and to promote genuine international co-operation towards renewed and fruitful multilateralism.
A significant contribution will be made by the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America, which will shortly be Inaugurated in Lima, in accordance with the Assembly's unanimous decision last year. We trust that the Regional Centre will make it possible to mobilize the collective efforts of countries in the region in the area of the interrelationship between disarmament and development and its impact on the conflict-peace relationship.
In hosting this new institution, which belongs to all countries of the region, Peru will be unflagging in its efforts to increase the Centre's vitality and effectiveness and urges Member States to give it genuine and unwavering co-operation. On the initiative of Peru and the Group of 77 the General Assembly has for two years now been considering the grave problem of the external debt of developing countries. These considerations have had the following positive results; the adoption of resolution 41/202 and the points agreed on recently in UNCTAD VII. Thus it would appear that everyone agrees on the seriousness of the problem. 
Nevertheless, the debt problem is growing daily, owing to the lack of universal agreement on how to implement a valid strategy for its solution. Endeavouring to solve the external-debt crisis through the imposition of adjustments and continuous refinancing is wrong.
Indeed, the constant process of debt refinancing makes it possible for the creditors to convert devalued loans into new loans with additional interest, thus increasing the principal and servicing. In other words, this refinancing thus establishes a permanent transfer of financial resources to the creditors - that is, perpetual tribute to be paid by the debtor developing countries.
In this way the debt expresses an asymmetry that is the product of a power policy that still accepts neither co-responsibility for the debt problem, nor flexibility in recognizing the real value of the debt in order to accede to historical interest rates, nor the real ability to pay of the debtors based on the requirements of their social and economic development.
As a consequence, the developing countries are increasingly adopting unilateral measures to reclaim their sovereignty and their peoples' right to development, thus limiting the transfer of resources and rejecting perpetual tribute to international financial profiteers. Thus, in the face of the abuse of the laws of the creditors, the justness of the laws of the debtors is suddenly arising.
If the debt burden has succeeded In reversing the logic of international co-operation, stretching the financial system to the limits of its credibility and political viability, the phenomenon of the international drug traffic is now reaching a scope that not only undermine the very essence of states but also add to an already critical international scene a criminal structure of formidable proportions.
In this context, it is encouraging to point out the fundamental importance of the International Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking, held in Vienna, which marks a new stage in the political treatment of a problem that has deep and complex social, economic and political connotations; the final declaration contains basic principles to which my country subscribes.
The decrease in prices of raw materials and the scarcity of resources generated by the debt crisis contrast scandalously with the geometric rise in financial resources destined for drug consumption. Peru considers that the time has come to mobilize the support of consumer countries to make possible a massive flow of financial resources to the producer countries that will enable a radical change to be made in the artificially created production structure created by drug traffic in specific regions of the world. What must be done is to substitute the Incentive of agricultural producers towards a harmful prosperity based on drugs with an effective, profitable type of agricultural activity with guaranteed export markets coming from a new agro-industrial production structure.
Two years ago when the General Assembly approved an important resolution on terrorism, the United Nations assumed a unanimous commitment. However, not enough has yet been done to establish international conditions obstructing a climate propitious to terrorist activities. I believe it is urgent to promote a widespread stabilization of open rejection of organizations which, under political or cultural pretexts, would create in developed societies attitudes of tolerance for the proselytising action of agents of groups that impose violence and death on our democracies and work against our peoples' aspirations for freedom and justice. The initiatives put forward to distinguish between terrorism and the legitimate Struggles of liberation movements against colonialism, apartheid and foreign occupation are positive steps which should make it possible for us to move forward 'to this direction with greater determination. 
One year after the last Summit Conference, in Harare, we observe in the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries a new dynamic with respect to the challenge of our times. The non-aligned countries must respond to a fluid international situation with unity and effective actions, incorporating our own perspective and consolidating our Movement as a negotiating force capable of promoting effective solutions to the grave problems of the world.
In this context the non-aligned countries are concerned over the intensification of hotbeds of tension - wrongly dubbed "remaining" hotbeds - which should appropriately be considered by the General Assembly.
My country is deeply disturbed by the escalation and undue prolongation of t conflict between Iran and Iraq and supports the peace process initiated by the Security Council and the crucial role of the Secretary-General. 
The problem of southern Africa remains unresolved because of the intransigent of those who oppose our struggle to replace the abhorrent apartheid regime and achieve independence for Namibia - heroic undertakings with which Peru wishes to state its unflagging solidarity.
We are encouraged by the progress made recently on the convening of an international conference on the Middle East for a peaceful solution to the problem in keeping with the security requirements of all the parties and with respect for the rights of the Palestinian people. Similarly, we support the Secretary-General's efforts for a negotiated political settlement of the situation in Afghanistan on the basis of the independence, non-alignment and self-determination of that nation.
Once more we voice our fraternal support for the just demand of Argentina for the recovery of its sovereign rights over the Malvinas Islands, and we stress the urgency of negotiations to eradicate that vestige of colonialism. With respect to the situation in Central America, Peru has always been convinced that It is possible to find a peaceful solution based on the right of the countries of the sub-region to decide on their own destiny free from any foreign Interference or intervention; and we express our solidarity with Nicaragua in the defence of its sovereignty, Independence, territorial integrity, stability and self-determination. 
 The present session of the General Assembly is taking place at a time when this situation in Central America is such that there are new prospects for the long-sought peace process to be successful as a result of the initiatives of the Contadora and Support Groups. We are deeply pleased that on 7 August last the Central American Presidents signed a document on procedures for the establishment of a firm and lasting peace in Central America and thus formed an executive commission to make viable the implementation of peace agreements, within which new dynamic the International Verification and follow-up Commission was established.
We hail this great step of the Central American Governments which calls for the adoption of a resolution of great historical importance that confirms the broad and unrestricted support of the international community for the peace process agreed on in Guatemala and gives a clear mandate to the Secretary-General of the United Nations to support the implementation of that peace process, and in particular the work of the International Verification and Follow-up Commission.
Latin America has assumed the challenge of acting boldly in the world, using its rich experience and its own ideas and perceptions to become a factor for change in international relations.
In so doing, Latin America is aware of the need to change international economic structures; it identifies with the cause of the poor, deprived countries of the world and their desire to achieve development, which is a right and an international responsibility. In our region itself, we promote schemes for political co-operation and economic integration and further measures to make viable our development and strengthen our potential for working together.
Our first experience in dialogue, agreement and harmonization in the area of security has been the peace initiatives of the Contadora and Support Groups in the case of Central America. This exercise in solidarity has given rise to an experience in political co-operation known as the Group of Bight, which will find full expression in the meeting of Presidents to be held in Mexico next November.
This new framework for political harmonization, established on a solid basis of democracy, flexibility and non-exclusivity, is an attempt to establish the nucleus of a process of co-ordination in the Latin American region which will draw the region together and consolidate its presence in the international system through the innovative work of a new political organization, an economic identity of its own and re-conceptualisation of its collective security.
Similarly, of very great importance is the decision adopted in recent days by the member countries of SELA, the Latin American Economic System, to hold annual meetings of Foreign Ministers prior to the sessions of the General Assembly in order to examine, through direct and informal dialogue, the international situation and its repercussions in our region, as well as actions to strengthen the unity and joint actions of Latin America and the Caribbean. Those meetings, oriented around dialogue and political harmonization, give SELA a new dimension and held much promise for regional unity.
The crisis of the international system confronts the developing countries with critical situations and conditions in which national efforts to bring the great masses out of centuries of poverty are threatened by interests that want to maintain an unjust and unhealthy status quo.
Peru, in the midst of historical difficulties that have resulted from its being a third world country - difficulties aggravated by the aggression of terrorism and the extortion of debt - provides an acid test on how democratically to achieve structural transformations conducive to the consolidation of a popular nationalist programme. If the adjustment policies of a discredited financial system have overshadowed negotiations to achieve a new international order, it is today more necessary than ever that the developing countries create an alternative based on growth that includes the redistribution of wealth - that is, a new concept of development.
In this important world forum there has been advanced the thesis that the relationship between the role of the State and development is a contradictory one, and the growth experienced in the informal economic sector has been given as an example. The Government of Peru feels that such a contradiction does not exist, especially if the actions of States are oriented precisely towards avoiding the oligarchic and oligopolic concentration of property and production so as to give all citizens, especially the poorest and most marginal, access to the means necessary for fulfilment in the context of a more just, egalitarian and therefore authentically democratic society·
It has also been said that the right to development is simply the right of economic agents to act freely· If this assembly of nations has enshrined the right to development as one of the basic rights of the human person and of peoples, it is because as time passes an international structure of domination and exploitation is increasingly frustrating and destroying the capacity of our countries to achieve their national development objectives. Whatever economic or social model is used, the development indicators and the living standards of practically all third world countries have declined to the levels of 20 years ago, which proves the structural and global nature of a crisis that is the consequence of relationships of power and an international economic order that brings down the prices of our raw materials, obstructs the access of our products to markets, favours regressive adjustment measures aimed at ensuring the repayment of unpayable debts under the original terms, and makes international co-operation dependent on the submission and subjection of the developing countries to being tributaries of those who benefit from that unjust order.
On the other hand, if those adjustment policies are to be replaced with anti-crisis policies of growth and redistribution, which is what we have done in Peru, a bridge must be built between the needs of the immediate present and long-term requirements in order to achieve a new international economic order. The achievement of a consensus on this approach would sow the seed of new development for the coming century.
At this time Peru wishes to express once again its fraternal, militant solidarity with all peoples fighting for freedom, peace and justice and to reaffirm its desire for understanding and international co-operation and its commitment to the principles and purposes of this Organization and its responsibility to build a better, more secure and more just world. 


===== Session 43 - 1988 =====
﻿
Mr. President, the delegation of Peru welcomes your election to preside over the present session of the General Assembly where countries of the north and south, the east and west will set forth their vision of a world still beset by war, conflict, injustice, inequality and the disgraceful racial discrimination of apartheid.
We feel that we have a share in the responsibility assumed by our region in your person. We are confident that your presidency is inspired by the ideals of freedom, independence, development and peace that bind together the kindred peoples of Latin America and the Caribbean.
I am addressing the General Assembly in my capacity as Minister of Foreign Relations of Peru. I represent a country of ancient civilizations and cultures, a country which today on the eve of the twenty-first century has more than 20 million inhabitants, 40 per cent of its population being under 15 years of age, and a country stubbornly striving to uphold its independence and attain its development.
For us, being Peruvian means being a Latin American and that constitutes an inescapable commitment to affirm our standing as citizens of a continental homeland, or, as our liberator Simon Bolivar said, a nation of republics. Because of the Latin American commitment to the Peruvian people and because of the alarming features of the economic and social crisis that affects our region, it is imperative for me to focus my statement on the challenges posed for Latin Americans by the problems of the present and the promise and challenges of the future. As the representative of a nation struggling against inflation, the foremost enemy of our people, through a severe economic programme of austerity with social implications, the situation of my country is not unrelated to the drama being experienced by the continental people of Latin America where economic and financial difficulties are aggravating our social problems and demanding a united, innovative and coherent answer.
We Latin Americans have an historical awareness that only by being united can we advance towards resolving our economic and social problems. By being divided we will only manage to perpetuate and deepen those problems and we should be allowing a dangerous expansion of the distance separating us from the industrialized world, at a time when other geographical areas in the process of development are stepping up their rate of progress. 
Latin America is in a state of crisis. We must say so plainly and we must point out to the international community soma indicators which, like an X-ray, clearly indicate its magnitude. One indicator is the volume and structure of an irrational external debt that burdens us with payments that are impossible to meet, drastically limiting the mobilization of resources to take care of the most pressing social needs and hindering the flow of external investments and resources required for development.  
We Latin Americans owe $420 billion, representing 45 per cent of the region's gross regional product and whose servicing absorbs nearly 40 per cent of our total export earnings. In 1982, at the beginning of the crisis, the regional debt amounted to 2.7 times the total exports; that ratio has now increased to 3.5 times and the trend for future years is upward. Moreover, from 1982 to 1987, owing to debt payments Latin America transferred 3190 billion to the developed world, while receiving 340 billion in new inputs - a shortfall of 3150 billion. 
That is most alarming, for the region is dramatically losing its financial resources and our countries are being transformed from capital recipients to net capital exporters to the developed world, thus depriving us of vital resources for social and development programmes whose non-implementation exacerbates the poverty of our peoples and endangers their very survival.
In addition, our share in world trade has declined to 4 per cent and the terms of trade have deteriorated by 14.5 per cent. Had this deterioration not occurred, Latin America would have had additional income in the order of 370 billion over the last eight years.
An equally serious aspect of the situation is the investment and financing attracted by the region during the same period. Domestic savings geared to investment in the region diminished from 24 per cent to 15 per cent of the gross domestic product, largely because that money went to paying the external debt; at the same time, external investment also declined, from 12 per cent at the beginning of the decade to 4.6 per cent in 1986. 
Formerly, in the context of the developing world, Latin America received 70 per cent of world investment; today that figure has been reduced to 17.5 per cent, largely because the impossibility of paying the debt on the terms imposed on us has discouraged capital investment in the region.
Those are the realities of the crisis besetting us, as is the fact that our imports and exports have declined to historically unprecedented levels, pointing to an alarmingly regressive situation in circumstances where the Latin American population is constantly growing and thus creating corresponding economic and social needs.
What can we do, given this harsh reality? What can we do to ensure that Latin America can emerge from a crisis that threatens to become chronic?
In the first place, it is imperative that we become aware of the magnitude of the tragic situation and that we Latin Americans assume a commitment to unite not just in a rhetorical repetition or reiterated announcement of the problems but in concerted efforts in laying our joint strategies enabling us to renegotiate the external debt on acceptable and realistic terms, and leading our creditors to understand that the debt cannot be retired on the terms originally contracted. Secondly, we believe that the time has come for Latin American States definitively to integrate.
Latin American integration can no longer be a long-term project or aspiration. It has become an imperative of the present, an urgent need, an indispensable option to modernize our productive structures in order to bring about a broader market that will endow our exports with greater competitiveness and enable us to receive investments and financing on realistic terms without detriment to our sovereign decisions. 
Integration thus understood will clearly give the region multinational negotiating power and strength enabling it to present a solid front in international economic and trade negotiations and to resist and reverse the protectionist measures of the developed world.
Latin American integration - the key to development, the unrealised dream of our liberators and the unfulfilled commitment to our peoples - has been limping upstairs on crutches while in the developed world integration has gone up by the elevator, thus broadening the gap separating us from the North and painfully losing us resources and opportunities vital to regional development.
Hence our peoples cry out with good reason for action, responsibility, dynamism, resolve and concerted effort.
There is no time to waste in Latin America. There is no room for apathy, bureaucratisation and insensitivity, because 700,000 children in our continent are dying of hunger every year; because more than 110 million Latin Americans are living in poverty, and of these 35 million find themselves in that subhuman situation described as extreme poverty; because the children of 40 per cent of Latin American homes do not have adequate nutrition; because 78 per cent of them are living in unhealthy surroundings; because the absolutely unemployed, which in 1980 numbered 25 million, now number 40 million and may be growing as a result of recession; because the underemployed also number 40 million; because 60 per cent of the economically active population does not have social security coverage and because per capita income has declined by 10 per cent.
As if all that were not enough, hunger and poverty are also creating ,conditions making children the targets of war, political violence or terrorism, as is shown dramatically by the fact that from 1982 to date more than 300,000 children have been displaced from their homes and thousands more have died or been injured as a result of these destructive tendencies. Terrorism, a pathological and extreme form of violence which holds life and democracy in contempt and makes crime an aberrant style of politics, has also emerged in Latin America and deserves our most vigorous condemnation and our commitment to fight it with firmness, but within the framework of the law, because only thus will we be affirming the humanistic and democratic structures we want for our societies. 
Latin America must also face the serious and disturbing phenomenon of drug trafficking, which is a crime against humanity, distorts our economy, erodes the moral foundations of social coexistence and seeks to set itself up as a new focus of power, threatening the security of States and of society. Since the decade of the 1970s, when the consumers market for cocaine and other drugs grew tenfold in some industrialized countries, international drug-trafficking cartels have taken shape, and there are now more than 50 million addicts throughout the world.
Because of the magnitude of drug trafficking, which acts like a multinational and annually mobilizes some $400 billion, it is impossible to defeat it with isolated or partial strategies. It must be attacked frontally in every aspect through a comprehensive approach that takes into consideration the relationships between consumption, production, transportation, illicit trading and financing, which feed and perpetuate the economic cycle of drugs.
Peru is affected by this plague, and it is committed to the struggle. Therefore, in the Andean Group, in the Organization of American States, in the Non-Aligned Movement and in the wider forum of the United Nations, we promote the co-ordination of policies and actions designed to establish effective international standards which should make it possible without delay to bring about crop substitution in the framework of an integrated development programme, a drastic reduction in consumption, the seizure of property and currency produced by drug trafficking, the unification of our legislations in giving decisive impetus to prevention and rehabilitation, and the enhancement of unconditional international financial co-operation to assist countries affected by illicit production.
The draft convention being negotiated in the United Nations should quickly lead to the approval of an effective international legal instrument. That can be achieved only through a balanced convention that attacks consumption, trafficking, transportation, production and illicit financing equally, and is based on full respect for the sovereignty and international jurisdiction of States.
We shall persist in the struggle against drug trafficking because that struggle represents a moral commitment to all the peoples of the world, especially the children and young persons affected by this plague. The President of Peru, Alan Garcia, has repeatedly called for such a commitment and has emphasized that there is no time to lose and no effort must be spared in this battle for morality and for life itself.
I shall now refer to some of the priority items on the international agenda.
There have been significant advances in resolving principal areas of conflict, such as the cases of Iran and Iraq, Afghanistan, Kampuchea, Western Sahara and Namibia, which have been set on a path that augurs well for peace. The processes of detente and rationality are long-term processes that uphold life over death, and peace over war, and they are promoted with talent and vigour by the Secretary-General, a distinguished son of Peru whom we salute with legitimate pride. It is important that those processes bear fruit, and that new areas of negotiation are opened up for other regions in which there is conflict, such as Central America, a part of Latin America in which it is indispensable to fulfil the agreements of Esquipulas II and to affirm international law and the rule of law, under which non-intervention and non-use of force should guarantee the peaceful coexistence of the peoples. All of this is necessary to culminate a long process of negotiation in which Peruvian diplomacy has taken part and continues actively to participate through the Contadora Group and the Support Group.
Similarly, it is urgent for disarmament agreements between the United States and the Soviet Union to be deepened until they remove the nuclear threat from the face of the earth. Otherwise those agreements already achieved will have little practical effect, for real progress cannot be seen in merely moving from the destructive capacity to destroy the earth 100 times to the destructive capacity to destroy it 80 times. Disarmament is a synonym for detente and brotherhood. In economic terms, it implies releasing resources used for destruction and death for purposes of construction and life. Therefore the Latin American and non-aligned concept of using the funds thus released to establish a fund, under United Nations administration, to counter poverty and hunger retains its relevance.
Those of us who call for the democratization of international relations, those of us who struggle for a process of peace, detente and non-violence, ate thus expressing the sentiments of our peoples, which cry out for life and social justice. Peru firmly and stubbornly believes in democracy and civil liberties, and that the State should be based on the rule of law. Those are enduring principles that govern our national life.
In this forum Peru holds out its hand to all peoples and reiterates its faith in the United Nations, and it expresses the hope that the results of this session of the Assembly will meet the aspirations of all who proclaim faith in the brotherhood of man and the common destiny of all who share this still torn and troubled world.
The eyes of the world's poor are upon us, in anxious hope. All who hold peace and humanity dear await our decisions. Let us not disappoint them.


===== Session 44 - 1989 =====
﻿
It is profoundly symbolic that Africa is presiding over the General Assembly. On one hand, it heralds the imminent culmination of the lengthy process of decolonisation and, on the other, it reaffirms our belief in the successful abolishment of apartheid. In that struggle, the Ambassador of Nigeria, Mr. Joseph Garba, has played a prominent role as Chairman of the Committee concerned.
The fact that Latin America preceded Africa in the presidency of the highest international political forum is also of especial significance since the climate of detente, so insistently demanded by the South, began to emerge during its presidency. For the first time in this century and in the era of technological dominance, we have a situation in which the struggle for the attainment of peace and justice within nations makes understanding between the super-Powers possible.
The reappraisal o£ multilateralism in an ideologically relaxed international environment will open the way to the consolidation of this new process of detente. Inevitably and inexorably, reality is testing the principles that led to the costly military alliances and the forced division of the world into zones of influence.
Formulas of understanding and co-operation, unforeseeable only five years ago, are now emerging. This is the beginning of a global strategic re-alignment, which is replacing the framework that has prevailed during the last four decades.
This new scene shows complex and encouraging signs. The new dynamics of co-operation among States incorporates the diverse non-military issues that are currently threatening the peace. Hence we see an increasing interdependence between national, regional and global factors. However, the expected benefits of a progressively open world are neither automatic nor balanced. The developing countries are faced with the dual risk of marginalization and new asymmetries. Therefore, we reaffirm that underdevelopment constitutes one of the main threats to international peace. The steady increase of poverty, the impossibility of reactivating growth, the political impossibility of carrying out programmes of economic structural adjustment, terrorism, and the illegal trafficking in drugs are, among others, negative social factors that point dramatically to our critical position in the new global strategy.
The international community must face these problems resolutely in order to ensure peace. The positive effects which the international transformation is having in certain regions cannot serve as an excuse for the marginalization of developing countries. We therefore are faced with the challenge of giving positive meaning to the concept of interdependence in order to take advantage of the capacity of developing countries to participate in the spirit and rhythm of this global transformation, taking into account the direct relationship between political, economic, security and development factors.
The fundamental features of Latin America today are its increasing political maturity and the incidence of elements whose interaction threatens our security and growth. In this context, we are trying to assert ourselves in order to ensure our defence and the promotion of the democratic system, the strengthening of the value of multilateralism and collective action. Thus we place emphasis on the possibility of our tackling action, avoiding confrontation, but defining a genuine Latin American solution for Latin American problems, thereby avoiding the trend towards unilateralism.
Gradually, Latin America has set in motion various efforts at political co-operation aimed at implementing concrete proposals relating to the security of the hemisphere, the consolidation of democracy, the maintenance of peace, and the problems of international trade and the foreign debt. Another aspect of regional co-ordination efforts is expressed in a dialogue with other States or groups of States. Among these efforts, the Group of Bight represents an imaginative alternative in the new international context, promoting as it does a policy of peace and democracy that demands that there be international understanding and solidarity.
May I now emphasize the issue of the defence of democracy. This is a regional priority and a factor of Latin American unity. In our region we speak of the defence of democracy, because it is constantly threatened, despite the fact that our people have overwhelmingly opted for freedom. Our experience demonstrates that the political and social effects of the severe and prolonged crisis, which has stultified development and turned the region into an exporter of capital, constitutes the fundamental threat to democracy. Democracy alone does not guarantee economic growth nor does economic growth automatically lead to democracy. International solidarity and political will are needed in order to assure ourselves of both bread and liberty.
In Latin America we continue to observe the peace-making process in Central America with fraternal interest. Peru maintains its willingness to support this peace process within the terms of the philosophy that inspired the creation of the Contadora and Support Groups. Now that an agreement between the Central American countries has been reached at the highest level, nothing should impede compliance with Esquipulas II and Costa del Sol.
We consider it highly positive that the United Nations has taken the important step of supervising the electoral process in Nicaragua and of establishing the United Nations Observer Group in Central America - a multilateral presence compatible with national sovereignty. The stalemate over the question of the Malvinas Islands had to be ended. Dialogue is indispensable, and we are glad the parties have resumed this course. The evolution of world affairs has confirmed the validity of international principles that are part of an ever-changing legal reality that is now almost
universal: the principles of non-intervention, self determination, the peaceful settlement of disputes and respect for treaties as the basis for peaceful coexistence.
In this new era of international detente, the presence of foreign troops in Afghanistan has ended. We hope for national reconciliation that will lead to an independent and non-aligned Afghanistan in the near future.
With the implementation of the tripartite agreements between Angola, South Africa and Cuba, southern Africa has entered a new era of peace. It is finally laying the foundations for the historic plan for the independence of Namibia under the supervision of the United Nations Transition Assistance Group (UNTAG), which was established more than a decade ago.
The fall of the last stronghold of colonialism in Africa and the speedy entry of Namibia into the society of free nations heralds the end of the infamous crime of apartheid. Only the Pretoria regime remains. The international community must continue to exert pressure to bring it to end its international rebelliousness.
Greater efforts are required to resolve sources of tension that have long been under consideration by the United Nations, such as the Middle East and others. Although no immediate solution is in sight, new and positive developments have emerged: the proclamation of the independent Palestinian State on the basis of resolution 181 (II) of 1947, the renunciation of terrorism by the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and the acceptance of the existence of Israel by those who had denied it.
We call upon the parties finally to agree to the convening of an international conference on the Middle East under United Nations auspices and with its participation. This must lead to peace for all the States of the region within secure and internationally recognized borders, taking into account Israel's right to exist as a State, and restitution of the Palestinian people's right to self-determination and independence.
We are following with interest the prospects for the situation in Kampuchea arising from regional agreements and the withdrawal of foreign troops carried out in accordance with resolution 43/19.
Peace-keeping has had a special evolution. Peru has contributed to, and continues to participate actively in, operations directed to support it. We were therefore gratified to learn that the United Nations peace-keeping forces had been awarded the Nobel Peace Prize.
In summary, there are reasons for cautious optimism in evaluating the international situation. The United Nations has finally broken free of the inertia imposed on it by the cold war and the aftermath of the confrontation between ideological power blocs. At the same time, the international legal order and respect for its principles and institutions are being enhanced. It is a long time since they suffered the arrogant challenges of power politics. None the less, grave non-military threats to security persist, and they constitute the origin of new global problems that we will be able to tackle successfully only through collective action and co-operation within the United Nations.
In this context, the implementation of democratic processes to channel the will of the people is the indispensable basis for the decolonisation process and the solution of conflicts. Namibia, Western Sahara and Central America, are clear examples of the use of democratic procedures under the supervision of the United Nations.
Historically, democratic values have proven fundamental in the promotion of human rights as well as in the maintenance of the international legal order and the right of peoples freely to determine their own destiny. Democratic processes are a factor of peace. Therefore it is indispensable to apply the essence of democracy to international relations. Unfortunately, the instability and asymmetry of the international economic order undermine this process by denying the majority of the people equitable access to its benefits and participation in the decision-making process on issues of global concern on which their own survival often depends.
Earlier I mentioned the direct relationship between democracy and development as fundamental elements of security and its consequences for the future position of the underdeveloped areas in the new strategic world scheme, in Latin America we understand security as a comprehensive concept. In other regions also, common criteria on national, regional and collective security are the answer to the challenges posed by the new nature of traditional unilateralism. In essence this is the goal of all the multilateral strategies being implemented to solve current conflicts.
In addition to choosing an option in favour of nuclear disarmament, my country has taken an initiative in the field of conventional armaments on a regional scale. Peru has proposed substantial reductions of armament expenditures, as well as confidence-building measures. We achieved this by notching words with deeds. We suspended important military purchases and also promoted, as we still do, frequent contacts between military authorities as part of our neighbourly relations.
The projected convening of the fourth Review Conference of the Treaty for the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Arms, in 1990, will constitute a corner-stone in the sphere of nuclear disarmament. Peru is ready to play a constructive role in its capacity as a developing country and a party to the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which instituted the first nuclear-weapon-free zone, thus making an article of faith of the renunciation of those weapons. We consider it essential that that Treaty be observed universally and definitively.
We are deeply concerned by the continuation of dangerous nuclear tests because of the ecological damage they represent. We are gratified that our initiative for their complete and definitive prohibition has prospered.
While the multilateral solution of regional conflicts of the post-war period continues, new global threats have emerged, demanding collective and immediate action.
At this session, the General Assembly has on its agenda the question of international terrorism. In addition to categorical condemnation of this phenomenon, stronger legal commitments must be made within the framework of the United Nations, drawing a clear line separating States from such activities no matter where or by whom they are perpetrated. We are concerned and disappointed that lack of knowledge of real situations leads democratic societies to apologize for crime and its proselytization on their territory. The agents of terror and violence shamelessly present themselves as victims in the name of human rights they violate daily. In Peru this insane violence has cut short the lives of thousands of people, including international experts and co-operation specialists - the true missionaries in the struggle against poverty in our country.
Forty-two years ago, during the first session of the General Assembly, Peru demanded concerted action by the international community to fight drug trafficking. In keeping with that farsightedness, we repeat that demand today. There is no need for us to stress the danger that this scourge represents for mankind. Without exaggeration we can state that the next world war will be one waged against drugs, its destructive effects on health and its corrupting impact on institutions.
Our youth, which should guarantee the continuity of our values, is the very first target of this social scourge. The security of our countries and of international society as a whole demands responsibility on the part of all. the struggle for its elimination.
We Peruvians do not shirk our responsibilities. We devote a substantial part of our scarce resources to fighting drug trafficking, despite the economic crisis that we are enduring.
However, the fight against drug trafficking must be viewed as a process with interdependent phases, starting with the growing of the cocoa leaf crop. From ancient times our peasants have dedicated themselves to this agricultural activity, on a reduced scale and only for legitimate purposes. Today, this activity has acquired an economic significance upon which tens of thousands of peasants depend. If we were to deprive them of it we would be promoting a social problem of hunger and protest which might lead to subversion and the relocation of illegal crops. Therefore, genuine solutions must be found that take into account political and social, as well as environmental, issues.
That is why we cannot speak about solutions based upon eradication but, rather, about crop substitution on the basis of international agreements of preferential treatment for commodities and the improvement of our transportation infrastructures in order to facilitate access of such commodities to markets at competitive prices.
The growing link between terrorism and illegal drug trafficking, with the latter financing the former in exchange for gangster-like protection, is now a proved practice. This association brings out the worst in both individual criminal activities. The ethics of those who claim to be defenders of a supposedly superior system are abdicated and negate the principles of equality, social justice and liberty are negated, as well as the human rights of the Peruvian people, which are systematically being violated by those who are colluding in this sinister alliance.
Control of the trade in the chemical inputs for drug manufacturing, the seizure of property and money derived from drug trafficking, and cooperation against the laundering of the illicit profits from it. together with the urgent implementation of a system for the promotion of prices and access to markets of goods to substitute for illegal drug crops, would and should complement the International Convention against illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and thus become a message of hope for our people.
The boldest proposals put forward so far would seem to lead to the solution of the global problem I have outlined - namely, the partial conversion of the debt into resources to be used to fight drug trafficking, the legal seizure of all coca-leaf production, and, finally, the decriminalisation of consumption. These Proposals have not yet been considered in depth, but - and this is important - they go beyond the stage of mutual accusations between producing and consuming countries and introduce a positive dialogue that, despite differences of views, opinions and objectives, agrees on the higher goal* putting an end to this scourge.
The decisions to be taken should be agreed by the Heads of State of the countries involved in this process. President Bush, in a speech delivered on 5 September last, extended the invitation. Bolivia, Colombia and Peru, the front-line States, have accepted this invitation and are actively working on co-ordinating the pertinent agenda and programme. Should we, however, limit Participation to the United States on the side of consumers? Should we not extend it to other countries which may potentially create the demand?
We know that when drug traffickers find difficulties in obtaining access to the market they promptly find an alternative. That is why it would be a disservice to exclude from this dialogue the Heads of State of other countries that represent alternative potential markets.
Global concern about the deterioration of the environment today constitutes one of the priorities of the international community. Peru reaffirms the-sovereign right of States over their natural resources and the rational use of those resources. Nevertheless, we consider it indispensable to stress the need to preserve the right to development as an inherent part of collective well-being. That requires increased international co-operation to guarantee the developing countries access to new environmentally sound technologies.
There is a need to establish a new category in international relations, a new field of international political co-operation, in order to neutralize these global scourges from whose effects no State can remain exempt since they constitute a new form of transnational phenomenon in international relations. In this category are terrorism, illegal drug trafficking, the preservation of the environment and the malfunctioning of the economic and social system manifested in hunger, absolute poverty, the external debt problem and the demographic explosion.
Despite the new level of dialogue attained by the super-Powers, we continue to be unprepared in the midst of a crisis of solidarity and co-operation within an international society that resembles a body devoid of defence mechanisms or a capacity to respond. Hence, we must have recourse to all the potentials of multilateralism.
In contrast to the greater clarity that reigns over political issues, short-sightedness remains in international economic relations, as well as the persistent contradiction of unjust and unequal structures, which makes development a frustrating challenge.
Therefore. the international political scene must find its logical counterpart in the gradual correction of the deficiencies in the unfair international economic structure within an interrelated approach that takes into account money, trade and finance. To that end we, the developing countries, have renewed our cogent to act collectively in order to achieve the restructuring of the international economic system. If these strategies are not to become an irony in the light of the expansion of absolute poverty, the failure to meet targets, the reverse flows of financial resources and the unilateral and indiscriminate application of macroeconomic policies, there must be collective and democratic managed of global interdependence.
We are increasing aware that we live in an interdependent world, that mankind is one and that it shares and experiences a global reality, without impinging on national identities, our people must act positively and flexibly, building bridges to understanding and conciliation that will bring together all their efforts and energies in the construction of a more humane and just world where only peace, together with social justice, will reign.


===== Session 45 - 1990 =====
﻿In greeting you, Mr. President, and in congratulating you on your well-deserved election in circumstances of special significance for international peace and security, I reiterate Peru's commitment to the United Nations system and to the norms and principles of international law.
It was no coincidence that the first action taken by Mr. Alberto Fujimori as President-elect of Peru was to approach the United Nations system with the firm intention of reintegrating Peru into the international financial community. President Fujimori intended that gesture also to express recognition of the decisive role the United Nations plays in maintaining international peace and security, the rule of international law, respect for human rights and the promotion of effective solutions to the difficult social and economic problems affecting the developing world.
The evolution of world political events over the past 12 months has taken on the pace characteristic of historical turning points: 1989 and 1990 symbolize changes in the international structure comparable only to those of 1789, 1914 and 1945.
The cold war has ended. Bloc politics is on its way out. The physical, political and economic geography of post-War Europe has also changed, promising unimaginable consequences - a situation that could not have been foreseen only a few months ago. Those changes, which affect the political, military and social structures of the European continent, go hand in hand with profound reformulations in the field of ideas and political and strategic doctrines. The dynamics of such changes are harbingers of the twenty-first century in our own time.
The changes in Eastern Europe are the expression of an essentially peaceful revolution that, along with the globalization of the world economy and the ongoing evolution in technological progress, entails the rise and consolidation of four principal peaceful trends in the new international situation.
First, the cold-war dichotomy based on the supposed inevitability of conflict, which pitted competing strategic doctrines against each other, is being replaced by realities that have made bloc-oriented dogmas obsolete. Those realities are finding expression in the rise of a more hopeful logic, one of conciliation, dialogue, understanding and co-operation among the great Powers. Thus, the so-called East-West conflict has evolved into a new system free from ideological antagonism in which the differences between socio-economic and political systems tend to diminish. Those factors, along with initiatives and agreements on the limitation of nuclear and conventional arms, clearly give the North a degree of stability unprecedented in this century. They represent the winds of a qualitatively new kind of détente that we salute and welcome in a spirit of solidarity with peoples that are rightly rejoicing in reunification, in reconciliation, in progress towards peace and security and in prospects of economic union and improvement of their standards of living.
Secondly, a dispassionate and well-balanced assessment of the world economic and social situation tells us that the end of the cold war has not yet had positive effects for developing regions. The international economy continues unable to bridge the gaps created by existing disparities. The impact of economic globalisation and interdependence is not yet balanced. The developing countries continue to face increasing and more radical marginalization.
For the first time in this century a well-co-ordinated system of guidelines for a truly macro-economic international policy has begun to be formulated among the industrialized economies, the international financial system and the competent international organizations, within the framework of structural adjustment.
However, the developing countries have so far been only passive actors in that process, despite the fact that their economic policies must necessarily take into account external factors that are, in many cases, basic to their own development. There is therefore an urgent need to integrate the developing countries, through an ad hoc mechanism based on consensus, into the international macro-economic decision-making process and, in particular, to introduce into comprehensive schemes for adjustment and stabilisation elements that can recast development theory and take account of goals for social progress designed to halt and reverse the spiralling and inhumane increase in dire poverty.
Thirdly, as the Secretary-General stresses in his annual report to the General Assembly, at the apex of those two trends - balance and detente in the North, on the one hand, and, en the other, imbalances and growing poverty in the South - we find a Janus-like international situation that wears both the face of hope and the face of dangerous unrestraint.
A number of complex factors have been added to the imbalances in the South and the legitimate despair to which the vicious circle of poverty and recession might lead. Such factors could unleash new and unforeseen conflicts in a regional context. Further contributing to that situation are the negative factors of uncontrolled and increasing arms transfers. While trends towards disarmament and détente grow stronger, the spread of technological and industrial know-how finds expression in the proliferation of centres of production of increasingly sophisticated weapons. The qualitative improvement in arms production has brought about the risk of new conflicts in this third world.
Lastly, looking at Janus' positive face, dogmatic ideologies are being rejected by peoples everywhere and we note that the sole ideology on which universal consensus exists is that of human rights. Individual liberties, political, social and economic rights and the rights of peoples - in short, all the inherent rights of the human being - have become universal. Democracy has become the common heritage of mankind.
The spectacular progress achieved in this essential field of political and social life in recent years, particularly with regard to individual liberties and civil and social rights in Eastern Europe, or, as in the case of Namibia, the right the people, stands in sharp contrast to Janus' other, pessimistic, face, reflecting as it does the deterioration of the economic and social rights of the peoples of the third world and the inadequate level of international co-operation in the fight against dire poverty. When we see increasing levels of hunger in a world producing food surpluses we know that humanism cannot remain a mere abstraction. We must also bear in mind that human rights should not be proclaimed exclusively for future generations of the developing world but also for all men, woman and children who at this very time are enduring the affront of poverty that is their daily lot.
At the same level of international social problems, nation States are facing new challenges, new forms and modalities of aggression, conflict and violence. Terrorism and the illicit traffic in drugs have become deadly factors in international relations. The illicit traffic in drugs is a phenomenon which affects most parts of the world: we are seeing the emergence of a veritable democracy, and we are suffering from this as much in producer countries as in those affected by consumption and illicit traffic. This is not just a matter of the dual danger inherent in drugs trafficking and narco-terrorism; it is a matter of an economic power threatening the very fabric of society and generating unacceptable pressures and imbalances in the economic and political structures of States.
Peru is one of the countries most affected by illicit production, and my Government is resolutely committed to intensifying the struggle to eradicate it. However, we are convinced that we will not win this battle by using repressive measures alone: there is a need for strategies to promote crop substitution and a drastic reduction in consumption. This is a struggle where international responsibility is shared, in which the international community and the countries most severely affected by consumption must play their proper parts, given the extraordinary scale of the problem.
The Cartagena Declaration, signed by the Governments of Bolivia, Colombia, the United States and Peru, is a substantive step forward, but if it is to become reality, all the undertakings made must be implemented as matters of urgency. Given that the United Nations Conference on the illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and the new Convention on drugs have made provision - as another substantive expression of the worth of multilateral concertation - for a wide range of measures to combat, as priorities, the production and illicit traffic in drugs, it is imperative that an international conference should be called on the subject of the consumption of drugs and the laundering of the income from the drugs traffic. 
Peru in the present crisis in the Persian Gulf, the Security Council has defined international legality, and ray Government strongly supports the demand that Iraqi troops should withdraw from Kuwait. We hope that the consensus that international law must be respected will in the end make possible a peaceful solution to this serious situation.
In this progress towards strengthening the United Nations and increasing its effectiveness, the international community is finding new opportunities for dealing with complex situations in the economic and social fields. We do not expect the serious problems of the South to be solved only through multilateral action. That would be too much to expect. However, while it is acknowledged that the economic problems of developing countries will have to be solved essentially by their own means, it is equally true that there is a need for a multilateral approach to problems such as inadequate financing for the stabilisation process, depressed prices for commodities, trade restrictions, reverse resource transference, limited transfer of technological innovation and, basically, serious questions of poverty and the deterioration of the living standards of the people. 
It is indispensable to reappraise, within a multilateral framework, the variables of social development and the role which a renewed strategy of co-operation for development must play in the new world economic situation. Multilateral definitions in this area cannot be too specific, but they must establish appropriate guidelines in order to make it possible for regional, subregional and bilateral agreements to produce effective solutions.
Peru has established a new Government, which was democratically elected by the majority of its people, despite the threat made by terrorists to violate the social and political rights of the Peruvian people and despite a serious economic and social situation. Heedless to say, the economic and social situation in Peru shows symptoms of an emergency of such dimensions that, above and beyond compromising its economic basis, has clearly expressed itself in social conditions that demand a concerted effort of national unity to overcome the crisis. Therefore, my country's new Government has appealed for a national consensus calling on all the political and social forces to join together to overcome the present crisis and to eliminate illegal drug trafficking and terrorism. 
The seriousness of the situation we Peruvians face can be judged by certain clear signet in a region of the Andes, the poorest region in Peru, infant mortality has reached a rate of 114 out of 1,000 - between 1987 and 199C the total gross investment was less than the amount required to offset the depreciation of the infrastructure, factories and equipment in the country - between 14 May 1980 and 27 July 1990 the Peruvian people were victims of some 18,000 terrorist attacks and this same homicidal activity has violated the fundamental right to life of almost 18,000 persons who have died as a result of political violence.
Consequently, despite the inevitable stringency, the programme of economic stabilisation has been received with understanding by the Peruvian people, who, in their best ethical tradition, have decided to face the monetary cost of this stabilisation patiently, while maintaining their hope for better times and the trust engendered by a leadership that is seeking to restore a moral meaning to political affairs.
It is in such circumstances that nations emerge as agents of their own destiny. This is the case of the Peruvian people, who, in the arduous task of overcoming the crisis, act with the same dignity and the same sense of solidarity as that which characterised ancient Andean civilisations, which build societies where well-being, justice and efficiency were shared values.
In order to overcome the crisis, three programmes have been outlined and are being implemented in the most efficient way possible: a programme for economic stabilisation, a social emergency programme, and a programme to neutralize the effects of the drought. It is indispensable for the success of the stabilisation programme that the Government, the church and the non-governmental organizations should be able to carry out the social emergency programme effectively. 
The social gap in Peru has widened 55 per cent of its population live in dire poverty and 32 per cent in conditions of deprivation.
This social gap has been worsened by the negative effects of the drought in the southern Andes and, for the time being, by the temporary impact that every economic stabilisation programme inevitably brings about at first especially when it is commensurate with the magnitude of the imbalances to be addressed. It is important to note that the social emergency programme reflects not only the demands and needs of the Peruvian people but also the international consensus that is emerging with regard to the Peruvian situation in its effort to establish stability, while at the same time preserving the human aspects of the Peruvian economy.
In a way that is in keeping with the political consensus and national unity, austerity measures have been proposed which involve an intense fight against corruption! an austerity that is understood not only as a reduction of government expenditure, but also as a means of restoring the ancient principles which are inherent in our Andean tradition and which are in keeping with a way of life that we must preserve in order to strengthen the traditional values of our people for the future.
This is the challenge which we Peruvians are ready to face in calling for a national consensus and through a moral and political commitment. We are convinced of the active support for these efforts by the international community and, most especially, by those friendly nations that are enjoying greater stability and prosperity as well as by international organisations, non-governmental agencies and organisations committed to co-operation for development and emergency assistance. 
We are confident that we have the support of all of them. We hope the response will be commensurate with the needs and the enormous efforts of the noble and exemplary Peruvian people.
As a special request of the President of Peru, Mr. Alberto Fujimori, I would like to put on record the warm gratitude of the Government and the people of Peru for the valuable assistance and support given by the Secretary-General of our Organisation, Mr. Javier Peres de Cuellar. We firmly believe that the measures he has instituted to establish a broad scheme of co-operation with Peru will reach their lofty goal.
I also would like to extend our gratitude to the Governments and international organisations that have already given their co-operation and support, especially in regard to food. For the Peruvian people, overcoming this situation is not only a government responsibility, but also primarily an ethical and moral commitment of national scope.  
This is the sum· commitment that, with regard to the struggle against terrorism, inspired President Fujimori to stress the respect for human rights, which is rooted in our historic traditions and recognized in our constitutional structure. President Fujimori was categorical when he stated: "The terrorist violence faced at this time by our young democracy cannot justify, in any case, the systematic or sporadic violation of human rights. The anti-terrorist fight my Government will wage will be framed by and carried out according to the principles of the Constitution and the laws of the Republic. This perspective will be applied with fairness and justice, both to those who presently commit offences against our- society and to those who protect it". 
We are obviously familiar with the moral difference between them. 
Mankind is on the verge of the third millennium of our era. In spite of events and situations that threaten the possibility of having a safer and more just world, there are global trends that make us more optimistic. Peace, justices and security are interrelated values. We hope that the new international situation now going shaped takes them into account in an unprecedented agreement of solidarity between the poor and the rich, the weak and the strong.


===== Session 46 - 1991 =====
﻿At a stage of unprecedented significance for the international system, I should like to congratulate Mr. Shihabi on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its forty-sixth session. The renaissance of the United Nations is a stimulating challenge that we must undertake in a creative spirit if we are to enter the twenty-first century with a world body capable of responding efficiently to the increasing demands of today's world.A clear symptom of the period of transformation that we are experiencing is the incorporation of States whose membership of this Organization would have seemed inconceivable only a few years ago. The admission of the Republics of Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia represents the rescue, affirmation and historic reparation of the principle of peoples' right to self-determination. The full membership of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and of the Republic of Korea symbolizes the removal of the anachronism of the ideological factor in international relations, as well as recognition of the need to face issues from a practical perspective by overcoming traditional confrontations. Likewise, the admission of the Marshall Islands and of the Federated States of Micronesia reaffirms the universal character of our Organisation.Seldom in recent history hive mankind's opportunities consciously to build its future been affirmed so clearly. The irrelevance of ideology in international affairs has offered a wide margin of freedom to create, to innovate, to establish principles and criteria that reflect the concerns and needs of all peoples. At the same time, however, it has sown the seeds of great uncertainty.There has been an increasing concentration of power on a worldwide scale, with the possibility of its consolidation as a unipolar system.The globalization of the international economy constitutes a parallel stream, which calls into question the narrowness of productive forces restricted to national contexts. This calls for a reshaping of commercial blocs and a restructuring of economies, based on regional criteria. Thus, the interrelationships of political, economic and social factors in the international community are today more evident than ever.In this context, the North-South relationship becomes all the more complex with the emergence of global issues, such as narco-terrorism, the sustainable protection of the environment, human rights, and other issues that, by their very nature, demand a more imaginative approach.At such a complex juncture what is the role of the United Nations? We face an international climate of an unprecedented nature which provides us with the opportunity to shape our own future. The United Nations, as the highest forum of the system and as the only truly universal body, must play an essential role in the management of the international system at this time of great fluidity. To this end, it is imperative to maintain the balance among its organs and to strengthen the political role of the Secretary-General, in order to avert a monopoly in the handling of multilateral affairs as a result of the concentration of power within the Security Council.One of the clearest signs of the need for the United Nations to adapt to the new international reality is the intense practice of dialogue and consensus. Towards this objective, my country, and Latin America at large, are -filling actively to participate in the strengthening of diplomacy and the operative restructuring of the United Nations, by enhancing our own regional mechanisms for agreement.In the same vein Peru hopes to contribute to making the Non-Aligned Movement a key protagonist in the dialogue with developed countries in order to define a new model of international relationships taking into account the just aspirations of all members.In this new context my country welcomes the steps taken by the Secretary-General which have helped the people of El Salvador to envisage a peaceful future after long years of suffering. The action of the United Nat ions has also enabled the people of Western Sahara to decide on their own future and has opened a promising path to the definitive solution of the Cambodian conflict.We cannot lose sight of the fact that the impressive changes to which we have referred have taken place against a backdrop characterised by the persistence of, and in many cases the worsening of, poverty levels in vast sectors of the world population. The redefinition of international cooperation for development must, therefore, be the new central item on the multilateral agenda.It is thus indispensable to elaborate a broader approach to such cooperation, placing special emphasis on countries that, like those in Latin America, are now engaged in a sustainable development process based upon their own efforts.International cooperation should be the expression of the commitment of the international community to create an economic international climate conducive to development. It must, therefore, not be conceived as an exercise in paternalism or charity.To the degree that international security is today determined by elements beyond considerations of a mere military and strategic nature, these affect the internal stability of States and are closely related to social and economic challenges. Therefore, they should become decisive factors in the magnitude of the flow of international cooperation.It. must also be noted that the existence of highly destabilizing factors in emerging democracies, such as terrorism and drug trafficking, make it necessary to re-examine the social concepts which have guided the action of the United Nations.This new approach must assess whether action taken in the social field has, to some degree, laid the foundations for the political stability of States, particularly the developing countries.For this reason and with the same keen interest and dedication currently applied to negotiations on global issues, a new and enhanced approach to social issues must be taken within the United Nations. Peru considers this to be one of the key elements in the process of renewal that now inspires the work of the United Nations.In order to attain this objective, Peru considers one of the most appropriate possibilities to be the convening of a world summit for social development and this goal must be reached through substantive work, the main characteristic of which must be the frank and open exchange of views based on realities rather than on purely academic considerations.Today's multilateral agenda encompasses a new set of problems generically called "global issues", that includes questions that link the developed world with the developing countries.Therefore, and in order to make the handling of these issues truly effective, it is necessary to include the developmental component in whatever international commitments are undertaken. In this manner, a new North-South dialogue, characterized by agreement rather than by confrontation, can be achieved. Such a dialogue must be based on the following three guidelines: first, the dialogue must be fundamentally of a social and economic nature; secondly, the development variable muse be included in this new generation of international issues, such as the environment, narco-terrorism and the growth of a dynamic entrepreneurship for a free, just and equitable economy; and, thirdly, the new international agenda must react to those initiatives that stem from civil society as well as from governments.Interdependence has produced an increasing indivisibility between the internal affairs of countries and their external environment. Peru is perhaps a model case of such a relationship. My country has made and continues to make enormous efforts to develop a new relationship with the international system,After one year of implementing a rational economic programme and the launching of a plan of structural reform designed to adapt the country to new world realities in the midst of hardships accumulated over a long period, democracy has reaffirmed itself in my country. We have successfully controlled hyper-inflation, we have started again to meet our financial obligations and have been readmitted into the international financial community. We are committed to limiting and eliminating non-productive spending. We have visibly improved the human rights situation, and have intensified our frontal attack against drug trafficking.The most serious questions on the agenda of this session of the Assembly are present in Peru. For this reason Peru can be considered as a characteristic and special case in the new international cooperation which should be promoted by the United Nations system.The Peruvian people, with an exemplary spirit of sacrifice, has set in action a process of national renovation that should deserve the recognition and support of the international community. I wish to acknowledge here the generous cooperation received during the first year President Fujimori's administration. He are confident that this cooperation will be expanded and deepened, especially in the coming two years, as this will be crucial for the consolidation of the Peruvian economic programme.This represents the culmination of a long process in which international cooperation has played a fundamental role. A support group, composed of the United States, Japan, Canada and European and Latin American countries and providing generous cooperation, has recently been established. They are giving their generous assistance to enable my country to raise the necessary funds to meet our arrears to multilateral financial institutions. The normalisation of our relations with these institutions has facilitated the reintegration of Peru into the international financial community.My Government has also endeavoured to establish a new investment policy with a law which ensures secure and favoured treatment for foreign capital. Likewise, it has laid down norms to facilitate the admission of foreigners who wish to channel capital to Peru. Furthermore, a law on private investment in public enterprises, aimed at achieving an effective alliance between the public and the private sectors, has been adopted.The results of our economic policy must also be tolerable for society. The people of Peru are not poor, they have become impoverished. This is a people that has been consistently hard-working and historically master of its own destiny. Peruvians do not deserve a bleak future of continual adversity; this is why we urgently need tangible achievements in the social sphere.Therefore, in honouring the strong commitment made at the World Summit for Children in September, 1990, Peru was the first country to put forward a comprehensive plan in favour of the child, and it is now time to implement that plan. This is why the participation of the international community is indispensable. It is our hope that we will be granted, on the basis of our own efforts, specific resources to complement the measures now being taken by the Government of Peru to protect the future of our children.The criminal action of drug trafficking associated with terrorism has had profound and adverse effects on my country. To deal successfully with this situation, the President of Peru, in October, 1990, made public an initiative which includes an integrated policy of drug control and coca substitution.Traditionally, as a part of the Andean way of life, the coca leaf has been cultivated in Peru. However, nowadays its production has been distorted by the external stimulus of the indiscriminate international consumption of one of its derivatives, cocaine. This is an objective fact that clearly confirms that the Peruvian peasants engaged in the cultivation of coca cannot, under any circumstances, be considered as drug traffickers. Moreover, differentiating them from traffickers might provide the key for a comprehensive treatment of the problem.Today, 60 per cent of the coca leaf is produced in Peru and 80 per cent of the illegal production of cocaine is consumed in the United States. Therefore, the understanding that exists between the Governments of the United States and Peru on cooperation in the fight against drug trafficking is of crucial importance to Peru, to the United States and to the international community at large. The Government of Peru, together with the international community, has the most resolute political will to eradicate drug traffickingIn this context, on 14 May 1991, the Governments of Peru and of the United States signed an agreement on drug control and on alternative development policy. This document contains essential elements for the Peruvian policy on drugs, such as the recognition by both parties of the failure of the exclusively repressive measures hitherto employed, and of the causal relationship between consumption and production of drugs.Regarding the innovative role the United Nations must play in this field, Peru offers its resolute support to the new international drug control programme of action and commends Mr. Giorgio Giacomelli on his work as head of the programme. The issue of the environment is also one of high priority to the Peruvian Government. He are confident that the international community will reach balanced agreements to prevent the preservation of the environment from becoming a new conditionality for the development of our countries. This requires innovative efforts in the field of international cooperation in order to make available additional financial resources and to ensure the transfer of environmentally sound technologies to the developing world on preferential and non-commercial terns.In this effort, a country's sovereign right to manage its own natural resources should be upheld, as should the principle that those who most contribute to environmental degradation should be held most responsible. The mechanisms which may be devised should include debt relief schemes.Another serious problem Peru is confronting is that of terrorism. My country suffers from the scourge o£ one of the most cruel terrorist groups in the world. Their criminal actions over the past 11 years have meant the loss of more than 22,000 human lives end have resulted in economic losses equivalent to 90 per cent of our GDP.Democracy is Peru, by free election and encompassing all political parties and ideologies, is prevailing and will prevail over the scourge of terrorism financed by drug trafficking. He are acting transparently, openly and legally, in order to enforce human rights effectively and fully in the amidst of the conflict with the democratic system and against fundamental freedoms which terrorism initiated more than a decade ago.This is what is really happening in Peru. For us it is essential that Governments, the United Stations, private organizations and everyone committed to the defence of human rights assist us in telling the world and explaining to it that terrorism is the main source of violence.We cannot tolerate the persistence of unbalanced, distorted and even conspiratorial Information that tries to justify the criminal actions of terrorism against our people, our society and its institutions. The Government of Peru has noticeably improved the situation of human rights through practical measures that are transparent and legal. It is convinced that the fight against violence must be carried out with respect for human rights, for that is precisely the foundation of the legitimacy of its actions against the crimes perpetrated by narco-terrorists and violent groups that consider human rights bourgeois rights that should be eliminated.My country has established the Council for Peace in order to ensure the strict observance of human rights, complementing it with a legislative decree authorising criminal prosecutors in zones declared to be in a state of emergency to enter police and military compounds and any other place of detention in order to verify the situation of persons under arrest and of those reported as missing.As I have previously pointed out, international security in the post-cold-war era is inextricably associated with the need for a new approach to socio-economic matters. Without greater progress in this field, international security will continue to be seriously threatened.In the same vein, President Fujimori, at the First Ibero-American summit, held in Mexico in July 1991, proposed an initiative for regional disarmament based upon the renunciation of the use of arms of mass destruction and the utilization of the resources thus made available to promote economic and social development in Latin America.The peace-loving attitude Peru in reflected in its permanent commitment to regional disarmament as an effective measure for general and complete disarmament; in its active participation within the framework of negotiations, currently being carried out in Geneva, for the establishment of an international convention on chemical weapons; in its reaffirmation of the terms of the international convention on bacteriological weapons; in its role as promoter of the initiative for a complete ban on nuclear testing; and in our peace-loving efforts to make the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty an effective instrument for cooperation and universal understanding.The President of Ecuador, Mr. Rodrigo Borja, during his address delivered yesterday, 30 September 1991, stated that Ecuador has an unsolved territorial problem with Peru which endangers peace in the region. He has proposed the arbitration of His Holiness Pope John Paul II as a means of resolution. In this regard, with all due respect and admiration for His Holiness, we find ourselves in the imperative need to firmly put forward two rectifications:Firstly, the President of Ecuador has attempted to ignore in his statement the very existence of the Protocol of Peace, Friendship and Boundaries of Rio de Janeiro of 1942, which definitively settled the boundary problem existing between Ecuador and Peru. Ecuador cannot disavow this treaty, duly signed, approved by the respective congresses, and ratified by both countries, under the solemn guarantee of four other American Republics that also signed it as guarantors: Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the United States of America.Hence, there is no territorial problem between Peru and Ecuador. It was settled half a century ago by a treaty between the two countries and with the guarantee of four American republics.The second rectification is designed to alert the international community to the Ecuadorian attempt to move into a different context a matter that should be solved through the contractual mechanisms of the Protocol of Rio de Janeiro of 1942, thereby trying to distort the nature of this bilateral question by internationalising it. In fact, according to Article VII of the above-mentioned treaty, which definitively established the borders between Peru and Ecuador, any disagreement or doubt regarding its application must be solved by the parties with the participation of the guarantor countries of the treaty: Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the United States of America.Circumventing this mechanism by trying to invoke the worthy, respectable intervention of His Holiness John Paul II has the sole objective, the hidden purpose, of disavowing an international treaty, signed by the Governments of both countries, approved by their respective congresses and ratified according to international law, under the guarantee of Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the United States of America, who signed this treaty in said capacity of guarantors. If this attempt were to be accepted, no international treaty would be able to stand, since the basic principle of respect for international treaties would be ignored, thus tearing apart the international legal structure so painstakingly built over the years on the basis of peaceful coexistence. This would endanger continental and world security.The inviolability of borders and the respect for international treaties are principles without which it would not have been possible, for example, to build the new Europe or to consolidate peace between Iraq and Kuwait, which is based upon the undeniable legal foundations of United Nations Security Council resolution 687 of 3 April 1991.For these reasons, from this highest of international forums we call upon our sister Republic of Ecuador and demand that aha fit her deeds to her declarations of peace, justice and respect for law by submitting any disagreement or doubt on the implementation of the Peruvian-Ecuadorian Protocol of Peace, Friendship and Boundaries of 29 January 1942, or on the verdict of the Brazilian arbitrator Bras Dies da Aguiar, to the guarantor countries of said treaty, for it is they, as guarantors with the authority to do so, not us, who must resolve these questions, in accordance with Articles V and VII of the above-mentioned Protocol.It is not Peru, therefore, that is avoiding a peaceful and immediate solution to the alleged territorial problem. It is Ecuador that refuses to resort to the final say of Argentina, Brazil, Chile and the United States of America, countries that have repeatedly offered to fulfil their commitment as guarantors of the Protocol, as they have recently affirmed in their declaration issued in Brasilia on 15 September 1991.The existence of a fully applicable legal instrument makes improper the appeal to His Holiness for arbitration, whose moral authority is beyond any doubt, as are the profound religious sentiments of the peoples of Peru and Ecuador.In the present context, with the restoration of the validity of international peace and security, the peoples of Peru and Ecuador expect a great deal from their Governments' capacity for agreement and cooperation, with a view to projecting harmoniously into the future the profound historical, geographical, social and cultural roots that link them and that should turn them into a powerful integrating nucleus at the core of the Andean community, which will be indispensable if Latin America is to fashion itself into a true some of peace.That is why the proposal made yesterday by the President of Ecuador for the establishment of a some of peace in South America is fully consistent with the initiative which was launched by President Alberto Fujimori on 18 July last at the first Ibero-American summit, in Guadalajara, and which, as Minister for Foreign Affairs of Peru, I hope to implement by inviting my colleagues of the Rio Group to sign in Lima in the near future a declaration renouncing weapons of mass destruction in Latin America and to start consultations aimed at consolidating peace, security and development in the region.Under the guidance of the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Peres de Cuellar, the United Nations system has emerged from its longest period of stagnation and inertia. It has attained a higher level of efficiency, and the redefinition of its role has given it unusual momentum. The optimism that has resulted from this is not baseless; indeed, it is based on new and encouraging prospects for shared work and collective action.As a Peruvian and a Latin American, I am proud of the eminent role played by my distinguished fellow countrymen in this age of unprecedented achievements. The recent institutional adjustments which I have alreadymentioned and those in the international system itself cannot be viewed in isolation from the discretion, constancy and imagination of Mr. Perez de Cuellar's historic administration. I am certain this recognition is shared by the International community at large.The contemporary world confronts present generations with a qualitatively different challenge. This is an era in which mankind will have to prove its capacity to manage the planet in an equitable manner. This vast challenge is not a consequence of war but a creative consensual act. It is therefore necessary to secure a renewed role for the United Nations, which should become the fundamental agent in the promotion of international cooperation for development, because it is the only institution capable of managing this complex historic transition. This is true today more than ever before, because it summons the vitality and creativity of the peoples of the world, the political will of their Governments and the leadership of its Secretariat.Peru, aware of these changes, is immersed in a sweeping process of national renewal. Its success depends on our own efforts and perseverance, but also on the international community's support and sensitivity.

===== Session 47 - 1992 =====
 Permit me to 
congratulate you, Mr. President, on your election, which symbolizes the spirit 
of renewal of the present period in international relations. Many of our 
countries aspire to emulate your country's efforts to overcome obstacles and 
spread political and economic freedom and become a productive part of the world 
system. 
The Government of Peru shares those same objectives, and is seeking to 
restore the legitimacy and trustworthiness that have been lacking in the 
past. To that end, we are seeking to modernize, to consolidate democracy and 
economic competitiveness and, above all, to base our actions on the interests 
of the majority. In a word, we are attempting to engage in a true process of 
redefinition and national reconstruction. 
The majority of the Members of the United Nations face similar problems, 
but nothing can be done if the Organization cannot begin to function as a 
genuinely multilateral association of sovereign nations with equal rights and 
duties as provided for in the Charter. To that end we must reform the United 
Nations and make it more effective, with the same perseverance and 
determination our Governments have shown in their national reconstruction 
efforts. 
Democratization through decision-making by consensus; administrative 
reform; a balance among the various bodies of the Organization; and improved 
cooperation for development: these are among the crucial factors for the 
future of the United Nations and for its prestige and authority. The 
developing countries have the ongoing task of ensuring respect for the 
principles of the Charter. On the basis of those same principles, the major 
Powers must redefine their real national priorities. It would then be 

possible to decide on a mandate agreeable to both sides that would orient the 
rebirth of the United Nations and prevent erratic extremism. 
The collapse of communism did not mean the automatic disappearance of the 
world's problems, but it has given the world community its first opportunity 
in 50 years to reorient international relations towards peace and well-being. 
We face an unprecedented, formidable effort that can now begin in propitious 
circumstances. The bases of this common effort are: development; the 
solution of disputes by diplomatic means; respect for law; and the application 
of fundamental economic and political freedoms. The United Nations system is 
the only mechanism creative enough to put this into effect. Only though 
multilateral cooperation will it be possible to conflate collective action and 
respect for national sovereignty without manoeuvring to preserve or increase 
international influence which would be even worse in a world free of 
ideological motivations or the imperatives of the cold war. 
For our countries as a group, it is vitally important to resume the 
North-South dialogue on a constructive and realistic basis. None of the 
global problems threatening the survival of mankind can be dealt with 
adequately without the active participation of the developing countries. The 
economic and social aspects of multilateral policy are in the interests of all 
Member States. United Nations action in this realm has been notoriously 
inadequate. 
With the ideological confrontation of the post-War period overcome, the 
most urgent problem today is the world recession and the consequent risk of 
regional isolationism. Undue concern for political and security matters or a 
narrow view of world problems can cloak conservative impulses and new 
protectionist tendencies, which would pose the threat of undue interference. 

The threat of this new world division can be dispelled only if we all agree 
that the various aspects of North-South relations together constitute the most 
urgent, critical factor of international security. 
None the less, Peru recognizes the importance and urgency of maintaining 
peace and preventing conflicts. We are prepared to expand our traditional 
participation in peace-keeping operations. The Secretary-General's Agenda for 
Peace sets out many innovative ideas for the future of United Nations action 
in this sphere, and we firmly support them. 
The situation of Peru exemplifies the unyielding relationship among 
national, regional and world bodies. In our case, this relationship, 
frequently addressed by the theoreticians of international relations, becomes 
something of a paradigm, because my country has worked to promote its national 
interests, respect for national sovereignty and multilateral action. In other 
words, Peru seeks to reconcile a political programme dealing both with the 
viability of its internal plans and with foreign affairs through a consistent 
economic and financial programme. At this point in international relations, 
we cannot imagine that a State like Peru can exist without coherence among 
those three factors. Without this, we would be under constant threat from 
fragmentation of sovereignty which has already done damage in other parts of 
the world or from harsh limitations of sovereignty resulting from the 
interventionist nature of the new global challenges and the consequences of 
hasty multilateralism. 
We view regional action as relevant, because we consider that the future 
of the multilateral system is based on the development of trustworthy regional 
organizations. These must play a growing role in the promotion of democracy, 
 fostering development, in overcoming conflicts, in supplying humanitarian 
assistance and in maintaining peace. 

In our region, Peru is working to ensure that the Organization of 
American States will play its new role and go beyond the rituals of rhetoric 
and ostracism. We cannot continue to hold back a hemispheric organization 
whose work must be based on solidarity and must be effective to address the 
fundamental issues that threaten democracy and development. 

The democratization of international relations can be achieved in a 
number of ways. Peru believes that one of the most effective of these is the 
strengthening of regional organizations, which are ideal forums for dealing 
with any substantive issue. All the situations that now call for speedy and 
effective action are the legacy of the dynamics of the cold war. Today we 
need imaginative solutions that combine the global vision of the United 
Nations with contributions by regional bodies. This is no easy task, because 
both approaches require the political will of Member States; but given the 
uncertainty of international relations, that will must consistently be made 
manifest in all bodies where States come together, as is obviously the case 
with the wide range of neighbourly relations we enjoy within our Organization. 
The Government of Peru shares the desire of the Government of Ecuador, 
expressed by the President of that country, Mr. Duran Ballen, in his statement 
last Friday. He spoke about the need to promote joint development between the 
two countries. In this context, and bearing in mind the fact that Peru gives 
priority to the strengthening of its fraternal bonds with Ecuador, 
President Alberto Fujimori in November 1991 put forward a proposal for 
friendship, cooperation and integration. This proposal was aimed at 
reorienting bilateral relations to reflect the desires of our peoples to 
strengthen good-neighbourly relations and development. 
Peru is convinced that the common will for understanding expressed during 
the State visit by President Fujimori of Ecuador in January 1992, as well as 
in the interview with President Duran Ballen in Quito last August, when he 
assumed the presidency of Ecuador, will continue in further meetings between 
the two Heads of State, making it possible gradually to harmonize our 
respective positions and to deepen our relations. 
 
As is well known, the crisis in Peru has reached an extreme because of 
the actions of terrorist groups and as a result of our dire economic 
situation. But we must avoid simplistic interpretations which maintain, for 
example, that ours is an ethnic problem pitting an indigenous population, the 
descendants of defeated Incas, against a political class descended from the 
Spanish conquistadors. This interpretation is thought-provoking and linear 
but inaccurate. Exploitation of man by man is a historic fact which many 
generations of Peruvians have striven to cancel out. But it is also a 
struggle to reconcile characteristics of an idiosyncrasy rooted in a profound 
and extensive mixing of races - characteristics that at times may clash but 
that at others can mesh fraternally throughout the breadth of Peru, fragmented 
as it is by its topography, and to the depth of the baroque culture of this 
the oldest nation State of South America. 
The cumulative ancestral problems of five centuries have given rise to a 
social breakdown which may now be called historical. To this unstable legacy 
are now added new challenges, including a quarter of a century of economic 
stagnation and internal migration, with its accompanying demographic explosion 
and mushrooming slums, and culminating during the past decade in 
narco-terrorism. Quite naturally, this has produced a tacit alienation 
between the State and society and as a result rightly or wrongly people 
have perceived the State as an obstacle or impediment instead of as a 
guarantee of meeting the basic needs of society. 
In the face of these challenges, an ambitious and difficult programme to 
put the country's economy and finances on a healthier footing was begun in 
1990; it is now on the verge of bringing economic recovery and renewal of the 
State apparatus. An anti-terrorist strategy culminated a few days ago in the 
capture of the founder of the terrorist group Shining Path. 
 
The conciliation Peru now seeks between its ancestral culture and the 
modern-day exigencies of competition is not impossible. It can be achieved by 
modernizing the economy and public institutions and by eliminating insecurity 
through joint efforts of the State and society against terrorism. What is 
needed is a representative democracy that is more attentive to the real 
immediate interests of the people, along with institutions that can guarantee 
an efficient dialogue between the State and society. This civic progress can 
be successfully made through a modern parliament, through integrity and 
efficiency in the administration of justice, and through the constant efforts 
of the political classes, both new and traditional, in order to surmount the 
country's problems in light of reality rather than of doctrine. 
At this complicated juncture Peru does not stand alone. It has enjoyed 
the understanding of other countries in the hemisphere and the thoughtful 
support of countries in other parts of the world. The understanding reached 
with regard to Peru's problems in the Organization of American States 
represents a historic landmark in the work of that organization and augurs 
well for its intelligent and dynamic responses to future challenges. 
The decision to respond positively to Peru's request for technical 
support and to send observers to the elections to be held in November is the 
expression of a joint effort to interpret, in a definite and transparent 
manner, the desires of the people and the Government of Peru to elect a 
constituent congress which will lead to new institutional viability for our 
democracy. 
The Shining Path obsession has not only divided the country but created 
antagonisms between the State and society, destroying both and creating 
instead a totalitarian response to the national crisis. The various stages 

of the Shining Path, stripped of anecdote and rhetorical effect, began with 
the exploitation of a short-lived and fairly confined Andean uprising, 
followed by coercive recruitment, employing intimidation and violence against 
peasants. In this context, given the movement's tenuous strength in the rural 
areas, it launched an assault on the cities, carrying out fierce 
assassinations of true urban leaders and bombing civil targets. 
During recent stages, the Shining Path had already established an 
unnatural alliance with Peru's most powerful and illegitimate transnational 
force, drug trafficking. It had filled the growing popular vacuum with its 
radicalized violence, taking new terrorist forms to extremes and moving from 
the countryside, where it had never taken root, to the city in a so-called 
"strategic step" which only the narcissistic cult of its leadership could 
sustain. This final stage of self-intoxicated obstinacy was the beginning of 
the end. 
Society reacted. From apprehension and despair, we moved silently to 
indignation and took the offensive, making it possible to create an atmosphere 
propitious to the recent capture of the founder of this Utopian movement that 
Peru considers to be the antithesis of its nationality. While it would be 
overly optimistic to say that we are approaching the light at the end of the 
tunnel, we can indeed perceive the fresh air of a new era of hope. 
The Peruvian people have overcome their paralysis and are now taking 
action against terrorism. Now that its genocidal practices have been 
uncovered and the Shining Path is being stymied by the renewed thrust of 
democracy in Peru, the efforts of the hemisphere must lead to international 
cooperation. In essence what we are trying to do is to promote the most 
effective integration of Peru into the world economy; at the same time, we 

must contribute to the country's internal security and cooperate in the 
dismantling of external agents who are still promoting terrorism in this 
nation. Here, in a word, lies the solidarity demanded by Peru and which the 
Charter requires of us, the United Nations.


===== Session 48 - 1993 =====
In 1990 the Peruvian people - heirs to an ancient culture,
who, like other peoples of the third world, suffered the
consequences of colonialism and later various frustrations
caused by our history - began to ask themselves more and
more why they had not reached a truly dignified level of
existence comparable to that of the developed countries.
Why was it that a rich nation, known for its
hard-working population and enjoying apparent democracy,
should have to suffer from hyperinflation, isolation from the
international financial community, terrorism, drug-trafficking,
corruption and internal and external debt? In short, why was
it ungovernable?
The so-called traditional democracy, which solved none
of Peru’s serious problems, had been nothing more than a
struggle between privileged minorities, the elite and party
leaders who took turns in power while the country sank
deeper and deeper into misery.
Nations, however, do not disintegrate in such crises;
rather, they are roused to carry out moral and material
reconstruction. Such has been the case in Peru.
I ask myself, and I ask all those present, the
representatives of all the nations of the world, "Which is the
first priority: the narrow, blind defence of an institutional
formality that is now worthless and obsolete, or a better
destiny for millions of human beings?"
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 7
We in Peru have experienced this disjunction which the
Government of President Boris Yeltsin in Russia is
experiencing so dramatically today.
Why should we fear making corrections in the course
of our history, however radical they may be? To govern is
to confront problems firmly, and not to defer, much less to
evade, decisions.
In exceptional circumstances, when the civilized
existence and survival of a nation is at stake, each country
has to find its own course and its own solutions and then
reconstruct its democracy in touch with its own reality.
Failing this, it will simply become ungovernable - a situation
that most often leads to anarchy, which in turn inevitably
generates violence.
The institutions of Peru’s incipient political system
proved to be among the most inefficient on the continent.
That was the context within which Shining Path and the
Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement came into existence.
The model for Shining Path is Pol Pot’s Khmer Rouge.
This is why, for 10 years, that group’s activities were
directed toward destroying the existing system: industries,
laboratories, electrical towers, machinery, bridges, highways
and public buildings, costing the country US$ 25 billion in
material damages and losses. New York learned what
terrorist insanity is all about with the criminal attack on the
World Trade Center - an isolated case, thank goodness.
We had reached a clear and elemental disjunction:
either we stopped the crisis and the terrorism which steadily
nourished it, or the country would collapse completely. My
responsibility was to govern, not to serve as Peru’s undertaker.
Our anti-terrorist strategy has led to the reinstatement
of the principle of authority throughout the country,
particularly in places as dissimilar as state universities and
penitentiaries.
After being captured a year ago, Abimael Guzmán
made a fiery proclamation to all his followers to continue
relentlessly the war against the Peruvian State and its
society. Today, in a 180-degree turn, he appeals to your
speaker, the President of Peru, in order to retract his
previous atrocious objectives. This shows essentially that he
has inevitably come to terms with the total defeat of his
totalitarian project.
In fact, I recently received a revealing communication
from the leader of Shining Path, Abimael Guzmán, who is
in jail, in which he asked for "a peace agreement". I repeat,
Abimael Guzmán Reynoso has asked the President of Peru
to talk about a "peace agreement". But a "peace agreement"
implies negotiation between two belligerent groups
considered to be equal - equal not only militarily but also
from a moral and ethical standpoint. This is inadmissible,
for there can be no negotiations with a genocidal terrorist group -
described as such by the United Nations itself - whose
leader, having been captured, tried and sentenced last year
to life imprisonment, has absolutely no power to negotiate.
Moreover, there is no correlation of forces between the
Peruvian State and these criminals that could put them on an
equal footing. There can be no doubt that it has been
completely recognized that the State, the Armed Forces, the
National Police and the people of Peru are prevailing over
terrorism.
The Government of Peru is fully aware of its obligation
to respect the international principles of the Geneva
Convention. Nevertheless, it will make no concession in any
way that would jeopardize the process of restoring peace
completely to Peru. Through the attainment of peace in our
country and the definitive eradication of terrorism, we are
also preventing the spread of terrorism to the rest of the
Southern Cone of our continent.
The Peruvian Government and its people will tirelessly
continue their effort to fight terrorist violence, with or
without requests from the heads of these organizations. If
they really wish peace to be achieved as soon as possible,
they should immediately and unconditionally stop terrorist
actions and their methods of propagation, as a preliminary
step enabling the Peruvian State to prevent further bloodshed
and suffering for the Peruvian people and to take the further
steps required to facilitate the process by which the
Government will fully consolidate national peace before the
date I promised to my fellow citizens, that is, 1995.
Twenty-five thousand deaths; hundreds of thousands of
refugee peasants displaced from their villages; thousands of
widows and orphans; hundreds of handicapped and maimed,
including civilian, police and military; thousands of children
who have grown up in the middle of a cruel war; $25 billion
of material waste; an entire country paralysed by terror and
uncertainty: this is the sum of 13 fateful years, during
which a State considered to be democratic appeared not to
exist in the face of totalitarian terror. The end of this
vicious circle is approaching after 17 months - barely 17 months -
of the counter-terrorist strategy developed by my
8 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
Government. Now we can talk about the State and
democracy in Peru.
In our country, a new and exemplary democracy is
being devised. It has some unusual elements: the common
man’s awareness of his chronic exclusion from the
mainstream of civic life; his experience and sacrifice as a
survivor of one of the century’s worst economic crises; and
his equally successful involvement in the war against the
nation’s terrorist threat - within the framework of the full
exercise of his right to self-defence and the universal rights
of the individual and of every citizen.
Peru can once again see the light of day. The
nightmare of war is now behind us. Those who doubted that
this was possible must now admit that it has happened and
must recognize that the decisions taken in April 1992 were
absolutely necessary. Peru is beginning to be a viable
country again - an attractive country visited by thousands of
tourists, who can confidently bear witness to its new look,
a country with hope, one into which foreign capital is
flowing, thereby generating more employment and wealth.
In the near future, the Peruvian people will have the historic
opportunity to decide upon a constitution incorporating the
thoroughgoing reforms that will guarantee peace and
progress in our country. This will be the end of a grim
cycle. Peru is now a country open to the world - one which,
like other countries all over the planet, is beginning fully to
exercise its right to be a free and prosperous nation through
the implementation of a true democracy and of a system of
government that will benefit our people.


===== Session 49 - 1994 =====
I should like sincerely to congratulate Mr.
Essy on his election as president over the forty-ninth
session of the General Assembly. His country and mine
maintain friendly diplomatic relations and close links
strengthened by the historic ties between Africa and Latin
America. I wish him success in his endeavours and offer
him the fullest cooperation of the Peruvian delegation.
We live in an age that confronts the international
community as a whole, and the United Nations in
particular, with big challenges. Representative democracy
and the market economy have spread throughout the world,
along with an intensification of integration processes and
the globalization of trade.
Nevertheless, international peace and security have not
yet been consolidated in all regions. We have witnessed
events such as the unexpected collapse of States that had
seemed to be solid, episodes of massive violence within
some countries and the tragic and complex situations that
resulted, persistent aggression against a Member of this
Organization and the exacerbation of nationalism in many
parts of the world. All these things challenge the present
capacity of the United Nations to respond.
Faced with such challenges, the United Nations must
reaffirm its central role as the indispensable leader in the
maintenance of international peace and security and in the
promotion of world-wide development. This is its duty, not
only because of the universal character of the United
Nations system, but also because of the contractual
significance of the instrument by which it was established.
In this respect, we must bear in mind that the
potential of the United Nations as the foremost
international Organization can be reinforced by increased
and more efficient coordination with the regional
organizations.
By the same token, we attach special importance to
the General Assembly’s exercise of the powers assigned
to it by the Charter, as well as to the expansion and
reform of the Security Council. With regard to the latter,
we should seek to correct the imbalances in its present
composition, improve its decision-making machinery and
make its working methods more transparent, while
striving to make its composition truly representative of all
Member States of the Organization.
As the Secretary-General pointed out in his reports,
"An Agenda for Peace" (A/47/277) and "An Agenda for
Development" (A/48/935), it now appears to be politically
feasible to respond to the multiple requirements of
international peace and security while encouraging
cooperation in the social and economic field, because the
complementarity of these elements is such that without
economic development there can be no peace or security.
"An Agenda for Peace" must therefore be complemented
by an agenda for development. In this way the United
Nations could lead the international community, in
accordance with the purposes and principles of its
Charter, and integrate the actions of our Organization with
the work of the Bretton Woods institutions, and above all
the World Trade Organization.
In this regard, we share the concern of the Secretary-
General, who has warned that the subject of development
is in danger of vanishing from the United Nations agenda.
We must therefore emphasize that the grave problems
related to development must be included in our
Organization’s work and that developed and developing
countries must agree on the need to address, urgently and
adequately, critical situations such as dire poverty.
The coming World Summit for Social Development
offers us an opportunity that we must seize. Peru, which
took part in the early stages of the process that led to the
decision to convene that Summit, will contribute to it the
national programme for social development that the
Government of President Fujimori has been carrying out,
a programme that gives priority attention to the basic
10


services of health, education and the administration of
justice, particularly for the poorest.
In the same context, Peru believes that the internal
efforts of developing countries in the vital spheres of social
and economic advance must be matched by high-priority
multilateral and bilateral cooperation.
I must also observe that in most of our countries
social development also means stability. Therefore,
continuing democratization and modernization is largely
dependent on the assignment of high priority to this
inescapable challenge.
Along with the problems of development, the rapidly
evolving situation today presents us, as an international
Organization, with a number of particularly complex
subjects. Outstanding among them is the process of
reconciliation and peace in the Middle East, which will
have important effects on regional and world stability and
security, as well as on trade, regional cooperation and
disarmament. Peru supports this process, and believes that
resolutions adopted in the General Assembly must properly
reflect that reality and contribute to the maintenance of an
appropriate political climate to advance the negotiating
process.
We also welcome the new South Africa, which
embodies the fulfilment of the essential principles of the
Charter and which is a possible factor for regional stability.
It also provides an example of democratic change.
The tragic situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, which
has made clear the serious limitations of multilateral
organizations, demands increased efforts by the
international community to ensure an early and lasting
peace.
I now wish to address a subject that we cannot ignore,
one that affects the international community as a whole and
that is particularly delicate for my own country: the drug
problem. Peru reiterates its resolve to continue to fight
illegal drug trafficking, as well as its conviction that this
serious problem urgently requires the unwavering political
commitment of the international community. That alone
will make it possible to adopt concrete and realistic
measures to stand up to this scourge in accordance with the
mandates of the Global Programme of Action adopted by
the General Assembly in 1990.
International coordination and cooperation against
drug-trafficking are indispensable. In that regard, I am
pleased to point out that the recent Summit of Presidents
of the member countries of the Rio Group accepted the
proposal of the President of the Republic of Peru, Alberto
Fujimori, to coordinate legislation to penalize money-
laundering, allow the confiscation of property linked to
drug-trafficking, establish swift extradition procedures,
promote judicial and police cooperation on this matter and
bolster cooperation for alternative development.
My country also pays special attention to human
rights. Their promotion and defence constitute an
inescapable obligation of the international community,
which must therefore reinforce and improve current
mechanisms of the system for the protection of human
rights, in order to increase their efficacy.
We are pleased to note the growing recognition and
support by this international Organization for those
countries that, like us, are continuing to struggle to defend
life and civilized ways of coexistence against the
unjustifiable and irrational violence of terrorism. For us,
this means that the international community has made
progress, by recognizing that in countries such as Peru
terrorist groups are the primary, the true, violators of
human rights.
In the current context of renewal, we supported the
creation of the post of United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights, in an effort to improve
United Nations measures to prevent and monitor
violations of human rights, whether the violators be
government agents or others. It is a matter of pride for
our region that a distinguished Latin American diplomat
is the first to fill this high office.
Within this chamber last year, the President of Peru
announced that the leader of the bloodiest terrorist
movement in the Western Hemisphere - caught as a result
of our successful campaign for national peace - had
acknowledged in writing the clear defeat of his totalitarian
aims and his bloodthirsty methods. Today I am pleased
to confirm that Peru is swiftly progressing towards
reconciliation and peace. The Peruvian strategy, which
involves the State and civil society, has borne fruit, as
evidenced by the mass desertions of terrorists as a result
of the "repentance law" passed on repentance and the
return of peaceful villagers to their homes, with the
support and backing of the State.
My country, having guaranteed democracy and
economic freedom, now has, after many years, excellent
prospects. We have established a new national
11


environment by consistently applying economic, social and
pacification policies. The results prove that we have taken
the correct path, as shown by the growth in gross national
product - 7 per cent last year, and projected to be between
9 per cent and 10 per cent this year, figures which
constitute the highest growth rates in the hemisphere.
This new situation will allow us, for the first time in
decades, to give social issues the priority they deserve. The
economic policies followed in Peru have made possible a
social programme implemented through non-inflationary
investment, with our own resources. This programme has
the technical backing of international financial institutions
and is in line with the conceptual approaches on social
development promoted by the World Bank, the United
Nations Development Programme and a growing number of
non-governmental organizations that share a belief in
putting the human being at the core of development efforts.
To do otherwise would be to make sustainable long-term
growth impossible. This essential task for the whole of
Peruvian society requires the cooperation and support of the
international community.
My country’s contribution to change in the world has
been made possible by the efforts of our people, who have
enabled us to enjoy internal peace, security, stability and
economic growth. The path we are taking leads the most
tenacious nation in South America, a people of long-proven
creativity, on the threshold of a new millennium with the
enthusiasm, the ability and the necessary tools for its
development.


===== Session 50 - 1995 =====
Mr. President, on this important occasion, allow me to
extend the congratulations of the people and Government
of Peru upon your distinguished and well-deserved
election to preside over the work of the fiftieth session of
the General Assembly. We are confident that your broad
experience and ability will make Portugal’s presidency a
high-water mark in this exceptional anniversary marking
half a century of the United Nations Organization.
Peru, like all the nations gathered here, is facing a
time of awesome changes in social, political and
economic practices and in international equilibria as this
century draws to a close. Those changes have altered our
vision of the world and introduced positive elements of
cardinal importance, but have also left questions and
shadows that cause the greatest concern. Moreover, the
shared approaches that have characterized these last few
years do not in themselves resolve many of the
substantive problems of the international system, such as
those pertaining to collective security, economic and
social development and the defence of the perennial
values that guarantee a worthy and peaceful life for
peoples and individuals.
During the space of a decade my country
experienced the worst social, political and economic crisis
in its 174 years of history as an independent nation. A
painful and futile internal conflict, brought on by
intransigence and ideological utopianism, added to the
waste of public resources and Governments overwhelmed
by the nation’s problems, led Peru into a deep internal
crisis with grave international consequences. Over the last
10


five years, the Government of President Alberto Fujimori
has succeeded in overcoming the internal confrontation,
restoring a healthy and vigorous economic order and re-
establishing Peru’s international ties. In this context, it is
very important to stress that we have set forth on the way
to turning external difficulties into patterns of normalcy and
the potential consolidation of our relations with
neighbouring countries, with which we wish above all to
cultivate cooperation.
All of us here are aware that threats to international
peace and security arise from the deterioration of the social,
economic and institutional fabric of States, and that their
worst effects, such as internal armed conflicts, drug
trafficking, corruption and the inevitable sequel of those
ills, poverty, are the seed-bed in which international
conflicts tend to germinate. And all sensible people also
know that the antidote to those ills is to be found in the
permanent values common to all of mankind’s great
civilizations, the values that should guide the effective
effort of the international community to overcome those
acute evils.
We have left behind the international system
dominated by the cold war between the super-Powers and
the absurd faith in philosophical and political determinism.
If we wish to build a world of justice and peace, we must
dispense with the rhetorical exercises to which we became
accustomed during that fortunately bygone era. We need
objective points of reference for the international system
that will avoid unilateral interpretations or interpretations
that disregard the principles in force to bring about civilized
coexistence among nations. And this requires us to refute
the cynical idea that the values of the international system
do not exist, or that they are entirely subordinate to
relations of force between nations.
All of this implies taking initiatives to enhance and
defend objective principles of international law, as the only
possible foundation for the present international system. We
see with great concern how ethnic, geographical and
utopian myths and revisionisms are becoming a boundless
source of suffering for millions of men and women in our
time, gravely disturbing fragile international balances.
The struggle of the Cold War undermined the legal
principles concerning avoidance of the use of force, respect
for international treaties and the principle of
non-intervention. Today, we have a duty to look upon
international law with a new gaze; we must understand that,
although international law does not in itself resolve the
world’s problems, it will make this world safer and more
habitable, and ensure that its points of reference are more
stable. We have before us the intellectual challenge of
clarifying the content of the central rules of international
law in order to strengthen their legitimacy, and we also
have the obligation to improve the effectiveness of
international law, in both bilateral and multilateral
relations.
At the same time, we must not overlook the fact that
the security and development of nations rests, today more
than ever, upon respect for the social and intellectual
features that are peculiar to each culture, unquestionably
falling within a universal conception based on respect for
individual freedoms. We must resist attempts to impose
uniform “models” that prejudge and discriminate between
the world’s varying cultural forms. We must seek unity in
diversity and must not accept conditionalities that are
often advanced by groups foreign to the democratic
representation of States, whose effects upon our cultures
are negative.
There are those who argue that, having overcome the
ideological conflict that divided the world for 45 years,
we are now entering into a conflict of civilizations as the
last phase in the evolution of the modern world’s
conflicts. Without accepting the determinism implicit in
that view, we cannot fail to observe that a lack of respect
for the cultural diversity of the human species could
indeed become a source of profound disputes.
There has also been talk of the vanishing sovereignty
of States as a fait accompli, and it is claimed that this
would legitimize asymmetrical intervention by some
nations in the lives of other nations. The word
“sovereignty” evokes armies, ships and cannons and has
an ominous ring to it. However, if we take an objective
view of the matter, we cannot affirm that this is so. In its
essence, sovereignty is above all plenary legal and
political competence within a constitutional order. If we
are today actively seeking integration in many regions of
the world and if States, through various multilateral
treaties, are diminishing their jurisdiction over certain
aspects of their economic and social life, that is taking
place because States, in the exercise of that plenary
competence known as sovereignty, are voluntarily
delegating the exercise of specific jurisdictions to an
international organization for the greater good of a
particular international space. In so doing, States do not
derogate from their constitutions nor do they lose their
capacity to conclude international treaties as they see fit
or to legislate on countless other matters. And so we
believe that those who are seeking new legal and political
11


definitions of sovereignty should take care to respect its
essence, which is nothing other than respect for the
constitutional independence of the various countries of the
world.
Peru opted for a republican and democratic regime
based on a division of powers and officials elected by free
and universal suffrage. Its government is a limited
government that leaves broad areas of social, political and
economic life open to the free choice of its citizens.
However, this limited Government is not a minimal State
without social functions, for it has active responsibilities
and an important agenda to pursue in order to free the
poorest citizens from a culture of dependency and integrate
them fully into the life of the country. Peru seeks to
harmonize transmission of the valuable cultural traditions of
its people with the imperative needs of an open regionalism
and the defence of a coherent, legitimate and just
international order.
Basing itself upon those principles and aspirations,
Peru welcomes the thinking that is taking place during this
fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations and believes that
the Organization should give serious thought to its future
and to the course which international society is taking, so
as to achieve a more complete vision encompassing
different international realities based upon mutual respect
and fairness among Member States. We must take into
account the new regional realities and seek machinery that
is functional, economical and efficient, not hampered by
secondary issues or limited to powerlessly denouncing the
contradictions of the international system, in order to ensure
that the United Nations can be faithful to the purposes and
principles that inspired its creation.
We believe that we must discard the pragmatism that
styles itself realism and defend the fundamental principles
of a balanced and just international order. Peruvians believe
in defending the perennial values of mankind, individual
freedoms, international law as an objective benchmark for
international order, respect for the world’s cultures and the
constitutional independence of all the world’s nations. With
these beliefs, we pledge ourselves anew to the renewal of
the international system.


===== Session 51 - 1996 =====
﻿At the outset, allow me,
Sir, to convey to you and to this Assembly the greetings
and congratulations of the Peruvian people, as well as
their best wishes and hopes for the future.
Peru is a country that has successfully dealt with its
domestic contradictions, and which is looking with vision
and determination towards the broad new horizons of
international activity. A careful review of what has been
achieved to date reveals that much remains to be done;
but it also shows that we are following the right course in
addressing the demands of our times.
However, it would be superficial to use this
Assembly, whose central theme is the reform of the
United Nations, to recapitulate the events of the past year.
We must wake up to the outcome of a long historical
process that has accelerated markedly over the last quarter
of a century and established around the world a network
of international organizations that today exceed the
number of States. We must also wake up to a fortunate
new development: the individual human being has
acquired a position of cardinal importance in the
international system.
The organizations established by States to satisfy
international, human and regional needs, have acquired a
permanent character and have created new systems of
international relations. When we speak today of reforming
the United Nations, no one fails to acknowledge that new
mechanisms are required to promote greater development
and economic and social stability in the world, and to
face current and future conflicts between and within
States.
There is discussion of the possibility of creating a
new economic council and a new social council, as well
as expanding and strengthening the Security Council. At
the same time, the need has emerged to transform and
rationalize the United Nations system, together with the
imperative of resolving the Organization’s financial crisis.
But in order to carry out those reforms, we need to have
a clear-sighted appreciation of the international scene and
to adapt the Organization to that reality, so that we can
achieve a fruitful and forward-looking perspective. It is
necessary for States, in the framework of the United
Nations system, to overcome their traditional activities
and jointly engage in tasks to deal with those new
realities so as to achieve broader representation and
functionality, with the possibility of future growth.
13


When the United Nations was founded in 1945, at the
end of the Second World War, international relations were
different from today. The end of the cold war and the
realities of regional integration have made necessary a new
vision of the relationship between State sovereignty and the
supra-national realities of the international system. Huge
social and economic challenges make it necessary for us to
persevere in pursuing the purposes and principles of the
Charter, to strengthen diplomatic action, and not to
succumb to arbitrary interpretations of international legality,
which undermine the indispensable primacy of international
law.
Today the inadequacy of the nation State is more
evident than ever, and the appreciation of supranational
structures is more widespread than in the past. We discard
the simplistic visions of pure internationalism, but we
uphold the validity, of the entities that are active today
alongside or above State sovereignty. The vitality of the
Andean Common Market, the Southern Cone Common
Market (MERCOSUR) and the European Union shows us
a future of common and vigorous legal international
arrangements. We are facing the definitive crisis of
nationalism, if not of full legal competence of the nation
State. International law today appears as the only
framework of standards with which to face the new
realities.
There can be no doubt that the nuclear reality was one
of the factors that transformed the traditional concept of the
nation State. The ability to foresee its results has made the
decision to accept war more exceptional, and non-atomic
armies have adhered to broader, supranational military
organizations. Atomic weapons have abolished the
impermeability of the nation State.
We are likewise faced with a crisis of the very
concept of borders. Traditionally, empires thought of
themselves only in terms of being an extension of their
borders. Today borders are not an obstacle to integration.
However, this does not imply that we are building a
universal State, a global “cosmocracy”. There are natural
limits to the territorial applicability of laws, and it is true
that the concentration of power has unbreachable limits,
beyond which it cannot go. Accordingly, history has so far
not led us to a universal State, but rather to a freer
structure, a complex political pluralism with a common
general foundation of representative democracy, individual
liberties and economic freedom. We are facing new,
functionally limited supra-statal powers, with different
arrangements that differ in scope and intensity and that are
superimposed upon the system of State borders.
The modern theory of the State forged by
Machiavelli and Bodin, the concept of the State as an
absolute power that excludes any other power, is today
fading. For more than 20 years States have recognized
forces superior to themselves. The idea of the unlimited
sovereign State has broken down; the linchpin of the
whole theory of the modern State has broken down.
Today sovereignty continues to exist, but not as unlimited
political power, but rather as full constitutional legal
competence. That seventeenth-century concept that
inspired the Peace of Westphalia, cuius regio eius religio
— that each State should have a religion — has been left
behind. This is more apparent than ever at the end of the
cold war, when the secular beliefs that confronted the
world have been discarded. Today the cohesion of human
societies is governed by universal concepts.
The new reality leads us to assert that State
sovereignty has already been made subject to international
law — and, it can be said, to natural law — thus negating
the theoretical legitimacy of the State that was born with
the modern age. This in no way means that there is no
longer a need for patriotism, the concept of fatherland or
national histories. It means, instead, that the myth of the
nationalist State has collapsed.
In a truly human breakthrough and not a purely
technological one, all moral values today are reduced to
their personal roots. Today, neither Governments nor the
governed can shirk the ethical imperatives that rule
equally over their public and private conduct. This is due
both to the process just outlined and to a wholly new and
far-reaching technological revolution in mass
communications.
The law of nations was at first a principle of
commercial intercourse. It later came to apply to only one
kind of actor: the nation State. Today, an open functional
regionalism is bringing about far-reaching changes that
are swiftly altering the existing order, and the United
Nations would be ill-advised to disregard that new reality
in strengthening the Security Council and reforming its
institutions.
This is the cornerstone upon which the United
Nations should be re-founded, now that the circumstances
of power which governed its life at the close of the
Second World War and during the cold war have been
overcome. We should not lose sight of the fact that,
although the act of consent that forged this new, open,
functional regionalism was the work of the nation State,
today that regionalism is already a supranational reality
14


that has taken on a life of its own and is spreading around
the world. Inter-statal balances of power are giving way to
regional balances of power that are not concentrated in a
single focal point of power and that are more decentralized
and more rational.
The future will be one in which an international
system with freer and more flexible structures will be based
on the freedom of man as an individual, as a person. This
obliges States, within the framework of the United Nations
system, to go beyond their traditional activities and jointly
engage in management activities in the Organization based
on the new cultural, economic and geographical reality
made up of broad functional regional areas. I say once
again: this is the keystone of the foundation of the new
edifice of the United Nations.
I have come here to reiterate the commitment of Peru
and of the Peruvian people to the United Nations, but also
to warn that the new realities that must not be ignored.
Those realities have guided the policy of President Alberto
Fujimori and are the inspiration for his Government’s
far-reaching and successful reform. Peru, in its continental
relations, today bases its foreign policy upon the principles
of open functional regionalism and strives to link the
Pacific with the Atlantic through supranational
arrangements.
Rooted in its rich Latin-American heritage, my country
sees its future in continental terms, drawing upon Latin
America’s important contribution in the area of integration,
international law and mechanisms for peace and security.
Accordingly, we are convinced that organizational changes
in the United Nations should be based on those same
principles.







===== Session 52 - 1997 =====
﻿It is an honour for me to take part in this
General Assembly as the representative of the people and
Government of Peru, under the leadership of President
Alberto Fujimori. I extend my congratulations to you, Mr.
President, on your election to preside over this session
and assure you of the fullest support by the delegation of
Peru. We likewise congratulate Ambassador Razali Ismail,
President of the previous session.
Peru reaffirms its unfailing dedication to the
purposes, principles and norms enshrined in the Charter
of the United Nations, without whose faithful application
it is not possible to achieve peace and harmonious
coexistence among States. We must all ensure respect for
international law, especially scrupulous and good-faith
compliance with treaties, and must contribute to the
maintenance of international peace and security and
participate in the promotion of economic and social
development. Accordingly, effective observance of the
Charter and respect for its principles are today more
necessary than ever in order to endow multilateralism
with renewed credibility and vigour. We live in a day of
marked change in the organization of power and of
globalizing trends in the international system which
require, in keeping with the Charter, a scrupulous
egalitarianism in relations between States and,
accordingly, multilateral policies in keeping with the
times as an appropriate means of conferring priority on
the common goals of mankind in our era.
Institutional reform of the United Nations system is
imperative to make it more efficient, adapt it to the
present needs of the international community and
consolidate institutions that will be truly representative of
the interests we all share.
For four years now the General Assembly has been
at work on the reform of the Security Council. National
positions have already been made known and reiterated.
We should now decide whether we shall embark on the
negotiations proper or whether that should be deferred
until better political conditions prevail, for the
unproductive prolongation of this debate could affect the
8


prestige and authority of the Organization at a juncture
when it is essential instead to strengthen it as the supreme
world forum for dialogue, understanding and cooperation.
We are aware of the difficulty of this process. To
those who have a duty to exercise their power with self-
restraint we address an invitation to be flexible. We also
believe that pressures or haste would be ill advised, since
they could hinder the achievement of a legitimate and vital
goal.
Peru believes it is necessary to make the Security
Council representative, to enhance its legitimacy, to secure
equitable geographical representation through its expansion,
to give it greater transparency, and to take the first steps
towards the abolition of the veto through strict limits on its
use. Accordingly, Peru supports the increase of both
categories of members. All of the foregoing should be
achieved through a legitimate agreement that does not
discriminate against developing countries.
To keep pace with the momentum generated by global
problems, a new institutional structure is needed, such as
that proposed by the Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, in his
“A Programme for Reform.” In order better to serve
international peace and stability and the sustained growth of
the world economy, renewed efforts are needed that will be
in keeping with the diversity of Member States.
We support the strengthening of the Secretariat, the
emphasis on the promotion of development and the
recommendation for rationalizing and optimizing the use of
its financial resources, as well as the transfer of the
resources thus released to development cooperation
activities.
The Human Development Report for 1977 reveals that
the problem of internally displaced persons has taken on
dramatic dimensions; the numbers increased fivefold during
the decade 1984-1994. At the same time, we note in the
report submitted by the representative of the Secretary-
General to the Commission on Human Rights concerning
institutional lacunae in this area of the United Nations that
there is no institution with exclusive responsibility for such
displaced persons.
We propose that at this session of the General
Assembly, which the Secretary General has called the
reform Assembly, the question of institutional responsibility
for the internally displaced be addressed.
Peru favours the idea of unifying the country offices
and operations of the agencies to facilitate the
implementation of comprehensive programmes in which
the United Nations system will be able to put its
recognized capacities to full use.
No reform can be successful without the necessary
financial resources. The financial situation of the
Organization is a subject of widespread concern. Peru is
of the view that contributions to the regular budget are a
legal obligation that should be fully and promptly
discharged. The principle of capacity to pay should
remain the fundamental criterion in the apportionment of
assessments. Accordingly, if States in arrears do not take
concrete measures to clear their indebtedness, certainly
without setting conditions, it will not be possible in a
timely manner to earmark resources for activities essential
to the majority of our countries. Such is the case, for
example, with the campaign against poverty.
There are other key questions on our increasingly
abundant international agenda. We must place increasing
emphasis on economic and social issues, cooperation for
development, environmental protection, humanitarian
assistance, the advancement and defence of human rights
and, of course, the fight against illegal drug trafficking,
terrorism and corruption.
Peru approaches the development of the international
system on the basis of four criteria that guide its foreign
policy: the pre-eminence of representative democracy and
the rule of law; the promotion of the fundamental rights
of the human person; consolidation of the market
economy and development of regional economic
integration agreements; and the search for peace and the
advancement of cooperation for development.
In the era of globalization, Peru views international
peace and security as multidimensional tasks. If States are
to assume them as real commitments and priorities, they
must be associated with a higher purpose, namely, with
improving the intolerable lot of some 60 per cent of the
world's population.
Problems such as poverty, acute poverty, illiteracy,
malnutrition, infant mortality, discrimination and
marginalization in general constitute a picture of potential
social violence that threatens the universal ideal of a
peaceful and orderly life. The plight of poverty and the
challenge of promoting human development have
radically altered the direction and pace of international
relations.
9


The international system is tending towards a gradual
demilitarization. With the end of the cold war and the
reduced risk of a global military confrontation, conditions
have been created to give priority, on the basis of dialogue
and cooperation, to the long-delayed task of advancing
economic and social development.
General and complete disarmament continues to be a
key element in security and an abiding goal of the
international community. Peru attaches special importance
to non-proliferation in all its aspects, primarily nuclear non-
proliferation and nuclear disarmament. My country
participated actively in the arduous negotiations that
culminated in the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
and signed it on the day it was opened for signature.
We are gratified at the outcome of the Oslo
Diplomatic Conference, in the context of the Ottawa
process to prohibit the production, transfer and
indiscriminate use of anti-personnel landmines, in which
Peru has participated as a full member from the outset. We
are preparing to sign the global agreement in December.
The Rio Group has undertaken to make our region the first
in the world to be free of these odious devices, which day
after day continue to take their toll of thousands of innocent
victims.
Peru is a peace-loving country that works for peace
and repudiates conflict. We want to strengthen political and
economic cooperation with all countries and groups of
countries in various regions on the basis of common
interests and mutual benefit. We emphasize especially the
forging of closer ties of friendship and cooperation with
neighbouring countries and fostering mutual trust through
specific processes, mechanisms and measures that we are
vigorously pursuing.
Without economic growth, there can be no creation of
wealth or jobs, and without these there can be no
development or prosperity. That is the great challenge of
our time. We must act to create conditions of market
transparency and social convergence in order to sustain the
growth of the world economy, the opening and
liberalization of trade, services and capital flows and the
transfer of technology. Developed and developing countries
must reach an understanding in order to avoid a return to
that not-so-distant past when narrow forms of protectionism
and conditionalities failed to overcome inequality and,
indeed, aggravated it.
Globalization must not lead to greater poverty and
discrimination, for they are one of the principal obstacles to
stability, and, on the eve of the twenty-first century, they
also pose a moral challenge. We must adopt measures to
incorporate disadvantaged societies into policies and
processes that promote economic growth and social
development.
In Peru, the campaign for the gradual reduction of
poverty until its eradication has taken a comprehensive
approach. Its focal points are openness, modernization and
liberalization of the economy, reform of the State and a
legal framework that guarantees property and promotes
investment. In addition, we are pursuing consistent
sectoral policies, financed by 40 per cent of our national
budget going to items in the social sphere, such as health,
housing, education, population and justice. The results
already achieved in economic and social growth are well
known, and Peru is considered a stable, secure country
with a bright future. Around the year 2000, the Peruvian
Government hopes significantly to reduce acute poverty
and poverty in general.
The United Nations has primary responsibility for
addressing three negatives trends of universal scope: illicit
drug trafficking, terrorism and corruption. We are
combating vigorously these criminal phenomena because
they erode fundamental values and threaten the stability
of democracies. The upcoming special session of the
General Assembly on the question of drugs — a session
that we fully support — calls for unity of purpose. The
international community will have an excellent
opportunity to tackle this problem in all of its dimensions.
Peru has been achieving concrete results in all facets of
this comprehensive campaign, not only in interdiction but
also in crop eradication and alternative development. We
hope to see a substantial increase in international
cooperation that would help step up our anti-drug policy
and would complement, even if only partially, the
tremendous national efforts that we have been making.
We hope that this enhanced cooperation will materialize,
in view of the increased awareness and greater political
will that have emerged worldwide regarding a problem
for which all of us, without exception, share
responsibility.
The Eighth International Anti-Corruption
Conference, which took place three weeks ago in the
capital of Peru, brought together more than 600
representatives from 93 countries. I wish to highlight the
set of recommendations that emerged for combating
public and private corruption. These are contained in the
Lima Declaration, the first global document of its kind. It
establishes an evaluation and follow-up mechanism that
10


will bring these recommendations to the attention of
Governments and international institutions. The goal
henceforth in this endeavour, which concerns Governments
and citizens equally, will be to identify specific problem
areas, taking into account public opinion and with the
effective participation of civil society.
The United Nations, as the global framework for
combating corruption in all its manifestations, must
participate in these efforts, just as the inter-American
system has been doing within its own geographical area.
The phenomenon of terrorism has, at the cost of
countless innocent human lives and huge material losses,
today placed itself on the agenda of contemporary
international relations. We have already unequivocally and
at all levels condemned terrorist acts and the criminal
groups that perpetrate them, and we have also agreed that
terrorist acts represent human rights violations. It is now
time to undertake a process of consultation that will enable
the international community to avail itself of universal legal
instruments with which to combat effectively terrorism in
all its forms and manifestations, as we are striving to do on
our continent.
Five years after the adoption of the plan of action of
the United Nations Conference on Environment and
Development, held at Rio de Janeiro in 1992, the lack of
progress on Agenda 21 is discouraging. There has been an
erosion of the political commitment entered into, especially
with respect to the allocation of new and additional
resources, as well as scant willingness to transfer
technology to the developing countries.
We reaffirm that only a comprehensive approach can
lead to the achievement of sustainable development,
because this requires a consolidation of the process of the
opening and liberalization of trade, as well as commercial
and environmental policies that are mutually supportive. An
adequate transfer of financial resources and technologies to
support national policies is also required. In this task, no
State should shirk its individual responsibility.
One of the challenges facing the international
community is to ensure the effective promotion and full
observance of all human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The advancement and protection of human rights are central
concerns of the Peruvian Government. The concept of
human development, which underlies the entire economic
and social policy of our State, focuses on a revalorization
of life and of the human being. The cooperation of the
United Nations is essential, through a realistic approach that
takes due account of regional and national characteristics
and that is geared primarily to achieving a culture of
human rights.
Many countries, including Peru, are currently facing
a cyclical, worldwide natural phenomenon known as El
Niño, whose severe economic, environmental and social
consequences are drastically changing the marine
environment, which is a source of food and employment
for broad sectors of humankind. The damage that these
large-scale oceanic and atmospheric changes did in the
past prompted my country some decades ago to promote
the study of this phenomenon. Thus in 1974 a regional
study of El Niño was carried out in the framework of the
Permanent South Pacific Commission, a subregional
organ of the South-East Pacific Action Plan, which has
continued to address this problem with the valuable
support of organizations such as the Intergovernmental
Oceanographic Commission and the World
Meteorological Organization.
The knowledge acquired by Peru and other countries,
as well as by international, regional, and world bodies,
needs to be integrated and systematized. Accordingly,
Peru proposes the establishment of a global programme
of integrated cooperation on the El Niño phenomenon,
which would enable our countries to mitigate its effects
and the ensuing material damage. In order to lay the
foundations of this program and set it in motion, we
should consider holding an international meeting with the
participation of the relevant agencies of the system,
regional organs and the respective national programmes
of the countries concerned. In this context, we propose
that, as part of the reform of the United Nations system,
its operational capacity in the area of the monitoring and
the mobilization of assistance for natural disasters be
maintained and strengthened.
The development policy now being implemented in
Peru is anchored in the universal concepts, values and
principles propounded by the United Nations: democracy,
economic freedom, respect for the fundamental rights of
the human person, environmental conservation, the
advancement of women and protection of the rights of
indigenous populations.
Responding to the dictates of its history and
geography, Peruvian society has since ancient times
embodied the ideal of unity within diversity. We
Peruvians are laying the foundations of our own future. I
shall not dwell on the policies that we have been pursuing
for the last seven years, their impressive results or the
11


vicissitudes in this process that have tested our resolve and
perseverance. But I feel that it is appropriate to repeat the
principal characteristic of our development model, which is
a harmonious and rational complementary relationship
between economic and social policies, which for the first
time in many years is enabling us to carry out a realistic
strategy for sustainable human development. Accordingly,
the modern and efficient functioning of the United Nations
system of cooperation is now, more than ever, of strategic
value to Peru. I should like in particular to express thanks
for the cooperation that the United Nations system has been
providing to the Peruvian people, which is stimulating and
complementing our national effort.
The United Nations is the best instrument available at
a global level to consolidate international peace and
security, respect for the sovereignty and independence of
States and international law, and for the promotion of
economic and social development. Accordingly, its
operations, approaches and strategies should provide
effective answers to the challenges of the contemporary
world and the needs of our peoples, who continue to place
their hopes in our Organization. Peru will always remain
committed to that endeavour.





===== Session 53 - 1998 =====
Through you, Sir, I would like to congratulate the
President of the General Assembly on his election, which
was so richly deserved because of his vast experience in
international affairs and his well-known personal qualities.
Uruguay, a friend to Peru, represents the authentic
aspiration to peace and respect for international law that are
standards of conduct for Latin America and for Peru.
I hereby reaffirm my countryâs unwavering adherence
to the purposes, principles and standards enshrined in the
Charter of the United Nations, which provide a guarantee
of harmonious relations among States and of the full
applicability of international law, as well as a foundation
for the worldwide promotion of human rights, economic
and social development and cooperation for development â€”
all touchstones of international peace and security.
Only 10 years ago, the community of nations was
moved by the dream of building a peaceful, democratic,
equitable and multilateral new world order. Today, while
we appreciate the continuing extension throughout the
world of those positive tendencies, we note as well an
accumulation of negative developments that threaten to
initiate a period of uncertainty and change posing
unprecedented challenges to our multilateral institutions
and urgently demanding analyses and strategies to
confront them.
The world financial crisis is affecting the very
foundations of the international system. The provision of
emergency financial relief may help individual countries,
but it does not contribute to the health of the system as a
whole, and it highlights the imperfections of the existing
supervisory mechanisms. There is thus a need for a
review of the Bretton Woods institutions and a revision of
their policies so as to adapt them to current reality.
The growing imbalance among countries in the
economic and social areas is another deeply troubling
element. The 1998 Human Development Report indicates
that 20 per cent of the inhabitants of high-income
countries consume 86 per cent of the worldâs goods and
services. In contrast, the poorest 20 per cent consume less
than 2 per cent. This reality underscores the urgent need
to foster real sustainable human development throughout
the world, as well as within our countries, which are
confronting the challenge of relieving excruciating
poverty.
Not only is it urgently necessary to strengthen
multilateral institutions and achieve friendly cooperation,
but it actually can be done. A few indications of current
positive trends are the worldwide consolidation of
democracy, the recognition of the central value of
individuals and their inherent rights, the participation of
civil society, the need to modify patterns of consumption
and production for the advancement of sustainable
development, the development and dissemination of
technology and the significant though as yet insufficient
progress in the fight against drug-trafficking and the
struggle against poverty.
Understanding continues to grow among States
regarding the concept of sustainable human development.
For the past eight years, we Peruvians have been engaged
in a process of national reconstruction and structural
reform, the overriding aim of which is the eradication of
poverty.
31


The Peruvian Government, under the leadership of
President Alberto Fujimori, continues to implement a series
of policies and programmes to improve the quality of life
of all our citizens. The fundamental element of these efforts
is the strategy for the fight against poverty. Our firm
commitment to eradicating poverty is reflected in the
national budget, which allocates more than 40 per cent to
social spending. The national priority is the reduction of
extreme poverty by 50 per cent â€” from 19 per cent to 10
per cent of the population â€” by the year 2000. Along the
same lines, the Peruvian Government accords great
importance to policies aimed at achieving gender equality
and the full participation of women, population policies and
policies for the protection of the most vulnerable: children,
the elderly, the handicapped and internally displaced
persons.
In the year of the fiftieth anniversary of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, Peru remains committed to
giving substantive meaning to its content, incorporating its
principles in legislation and putting them into practice
through education and information and by including them
in policies of development. The protection and fostering of
human rights is a priority and a duty for Peruvians, which
is why we defend the universality, indivisibility,
comprehensiveness and non-discriminatory application of
human rights.
My country has signed and ratified almost all the
international instruments concerning human rights, both
universal and regional. Consequently, we call upon those
countries that still are not parties to the two International
Covenants on human rights and to the American
Convention on Human Rights to ratify them, not only in
honour of the fiftieth anniversary but also so that they will
be consistent with the principles they continually espouse
in the international arena.
The persistence of new non-military global threats â€”
such as international terrorism, the intensification of
organized crime, corruption and the problem of drugs â€”
adds to the gravity of the present international situation.
Peru, which has suffered from terrorist violence, knows that
this barbarism constitutes an assault on the individual and
on society as a whole. It aims to destroy democracy and
fundamental freedoms, in addition to threatening the peace
and security of nations. In consequence, we consider all
terrorist acts a systematic and deliberate violation of human
rights that cannot be justified by any ideology or for any
other reason, and that they should therefore be treated only
as criminal acts.
Peru categorically condemns terrorism in all its
forms and manifestations and urges the international
community to combat it vigorously. With the same
determination, Peru reiterates that cases of international
terrorism should be resolutely combated within the
framework of international law.
In 1990 there were 120 thousand hectares of coca in
Peru. Today, in a spectacular decline, this has been
reduced by half, and with it the number of peasant
families linked to the coca economy. Through
programmes of alternative development it is possible to
avoid a resurgence in the supply of coca leaves. We
therefore need to combine national efforts with
international support to overcome a complex problem that
is a matter of shared responsibility. In this regard, we are
promoting debt-swap programmes for alternative
development projects. We have also convened a donor
consulting group, which will meet next November,
sponsored by the Inter-American Bank, the Inter-
American Commission for the Control of Drug Abuse and
the European Union.
As President Alberto Fujimori stated during the
special session of the General Assembly devoted to the
drug problem,
â€œThe purpose of the meeting is to secure the
complementary financial resources required to
implement alternative development, prevention and
rehabilitation programmes within the framework of
anti-poverty policies and the sustainable management
of natural resources.â€ (A/S-20/PV.2, p. 2)
I strongly reaffirm that my country is committed to
fighting drug-trafficking and its related effects until they
are eradicated. The criminal structures of drug-trafficking
cannot be given any respite during which they might
reconstitute themselves. For this reason the international
community must intensify its joint efforts to put an end to
this scourge that affects humanity.
Because Peru has recently experienced a crisis
situation, we face major difficulties resulting from
internally displaced communities. Throughout the world
there has been a dramatic increase in the number of the
internally displaced in recent years, which makes it
essential to strengthen United Nations action in this
sphere. Consequently, we declare before the General
Assembly the urgent need to further deepen and expand
the mandates, programmes and sources of funding for the
systemâs specialized agencies and bodies, with the aim of
32


prioritizing assistance to those countries affected by this
problem.
Peru is a peace-loving nation which works for peace
and rejects conflict; which aspires to strengthen political
and economic cooperation with all countries and groups of
countries in different regions, on the basis of common
interests and mutual benefit.
In the realm of peace and security, the international
community must now unite against new tendencies towards
nuclear proliferation and a growing number of internal
conflicts and conflicts between States in various parts of the
world. To this must be added conventional arms races and
the hundreds of thousands of anti-personnel mines that are
still deployed in the world, whose shocking and unjust
consequences we all know. These facts together threaten to
overwhelm the existing capacities of our countries and our
international institutions.
Peru vigorously supports general and complete
disarmament under strict international control. This is both
a necessary condition for peace and an ongoing task of our
Organization.
Deplorable recent developments in the sphere of
nuclear proliferation underscore the urgency of perfecting
the existing non-proliferation regimes and the imperative
need for negotiations on nuclear disarmament to go
forward. The proposed fourth special session of the General
Assembly devoted to disarmament will have to consider
these questions on a priority basis. We Latin Americans
now appreciate all the more the Treaty of Tlatelolco, which
created in our region the first inhabited zone of the planet
to be free of nuclear weapons, and we are continuing to
develop ties of cooperation with other nuclear-weapon-free
zones.
My country was the first Latin American State to
ratify the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty, and
consequently rejects any kind of nuclear test anywhere in
the world.
The Convention on anti-personnel landmines is a
positive sign of change on the international scene. This
makes plain the humanitarian concerns that inspire the
conscience of the world. We are pleased that it will enter
into force in March 1999, and are particularly interested in
its full implementation after that date. Accordingly, the
international community will have to give its active
cooperation and make the utmost effort to remove or
destroy the mines already planted in every region of the
world.
Peru was one of the first countries to ratify the
Ottawa Convention and it already begun to adopt its
applicable provisions. We call upon all countries which
have not yet done so to ratify or adhere to the Ottawa
Convention as soon as possible, as a contribution to
peace, security, human coexistence and the development
of our peoples. We trust that those States which have
already signed it but have not yet ratified it will comply
with article 18 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of
Treaties, under which signatory nations must abstain from
acts which would frustrate the purpose of the Ottawa
Convention.
We believe that the United Nations Regional Centre
for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin
American and the Caribbean, which has its headquarters
in Lima, can contribute to promoting a culture of peace
and strengthening the efforts towards disarmament in the
region, including dealing with the problem of mines.
In the foregoing scenario, the reform and
strengthening of the United Nations system take on even
greater importance. Change and adjustment lead to greater
efficiency. The process of structural and functional reform
of the United Nations, rendered imperative by
globalization and changes on the international scene,
makes it necessary to ensure the coherence of its
programmes and activities and to transform the
Organization into an agent of sustainable human
development.
We believe that it is appropriate and timely to
continue our efforts to define the criteria that should
guide reform of the Security Council. Decisions on this
fundamental matter should necessarily be adopted on the
basis of the broadest possible agreement and in the spirit
and letter of the Charter of the United Nations, which
would itself be revised. The modifications we desire aim
towards a more representative and efficient world
Organization. In that regard, this effort must not give way
to confrontation and discord. Let us rather support all
efforts directed towards allowing the Organization to
respond to the real needs of all its Member States.
33


Peru pays tribute to the peacekeeping operations of the
United Nations on their fiftieth anniversary and honours the
memory of the men and women, soldiers, police and
civilians, including Peruvian nationals, who have sacrificed
their lives in this noble mission. The peacekeeping
operations, in some of which my country took part, are
emblematic of the responsibility that the Charter assigns to
our Organization.
We wish to reiterate, Mr. President, our best wishes to
you and to the Assembly in this new period we are
entering, which will surely have important implications for
the international community.

===== Session 54 - 1999 =====
The
delegation of Peru is greatly pleased, Sir, at your election
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its fifty-fourth
session, especially since Peru was an active participant in
Namibia’s independence process, which was advanced by
the United Nations. As the first speaker at this morning’s
meeting I am particularly pleased to congratulate you and
the other officers of the General Assembly.
The arrival of the new millennium is a great historic
opportunity to initiate an era of peace, progress and well-
being, from which no people on Earth should be excluded.
That requires a greater commitment on the part of the
international community to create conditions that will
enable developing nations properly to channel their own
energy and potential with a view to achieving
comprehensive national development.
At the height of the twentieth century, the majority
of the world’s peoples remain mired in the social, cultural
and technological conditions of the nineteenth century —
or even of earlier centuries. We shall be able truly to
speak of a new era only if our aspirations for the twenty-
first century and the third millennium become tangible
reality for those peoples and if those peoples succeed in
fulfilling their own legitimate aspirations: in other words,
if a globalized world can globalize well-being and dignity.
The conversion of our economies to adapt them to
globalization has social costs which we can bear provided
that this process assures us a future of development and
well-being, not one of additional frustrations. Such
frustrations could arise if our national economies, rather
than growing stronger, are weakened by economic
opening based on unequal or unjust terms of trade. The
reaction, which no one wishes to see, could be a return to
defeated economic ideas.
In speaking of my own country, Peru, I can say that,
like other peoples, it inherited a heavy burden of injustice
and backwardness, but it also has an extraordinary future-
looking calling that has made it possible over the past 10
years for our country to become an emerging economy.
That future-looking calling has enabled us to defeat
the totalitarian, terrorist designs of the Shining Path and
of the Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement. It was the


latter group that seized the residence of the Japanese
Ambassador in 1996.
The destructive capacity of such criminal activity is on
the increase thanks to access to new technology, and today
it threatens every region and every continent. If it is not
duly stopped, it will undoubtedly become the nightmare of
the twenty-first century. Both internal and external peace
are essential for the coming of the new era that we are
championing.
In 1998, Peru and Ecuador were at a crossroads: either
to pursue the path of armed conflict, the situation typical of
the entire century, which has led to the destruction of
peoples; or to follow the path of peace, the only possibility
for development. Peru and Ecuador chose peace. The 1998
peace agreement between Peru and Ecuador was the
product of two equally important factors: the political will
of two Governments taken to its ultimate conclusion; and
the capacities, energy and awareness of two peoples
determined to overcome old prejudices and work towards
a future of development. Ecuador and Peru intend to reach
the twenty-first century without the baggage of the
nineteenth. Peace has opened up possibilities for the
development of Peru and of Ecuador thanks to savings in
resources once earmarked for defence, and it has shown
again that Latin America is a mature region that rejects
warlike tension.
But tranquility in our region has been disturbed by the
alliance of drug trafficking and terrorism. In some cases,
these criminal activities have created power sufficient to
challenge States as well as to upset the world economy:
illicit drug money may have infiltrated productive,
commercial and even political activities. Terrorism and drug
trafficking therefore represent a threat to modern society
and to good governance.
In general terms, poverty, terrorism, drug trafficking
and racial discrimination are the main barriers to our
glimpsing the new era that as civilized peoples we propose
to reach. Our task and our commitment is to overcome
these obstacles with firm political will if we want this
transitional period in which we live to mark the threshold
of a new era for mankind.
The concepts of democracy and fairness must prevail.
It is important to promote democracy within countries, but
also to promote it between countries and between peoples.
Democracy applies not only to the internal structure of
States, but also to the international relations that will
determine the fate of the world.
Human rights raised to their maximal power and
highest expression are the rights of peoples, and all
peoples have a right to the future.
















===== Session 55 - 2000 =====
At the outset, I would like to join those who
preceded me in congratulating you on your
appointment as President of this last General Assembly
of the twentieth century. Peru is pleased that a
representative of Finland, a country everyone knows is
committed to the objectives of the Organization, is
steering the work of the fifty-fifth session of the
General Assembly.
I am convinced that, under your leadership we
will achieve the mandates that are necessary to begin to
pursue the vision developed by our Heads of State and
Government at the recent Millennium Summit.
I should also like to welcome and congratulate
Tuvalu for its incorporation into the United Nations.
This will undoubtedly represent an important
contribution to the different spheres of work of the
Organization.
The Millennium Summit has revealed the
enormous challenges that lie ahead and the
overwhelming need to forge a new form of
international order that will allow future generations to
enjoy a world free from the threats of war, poverty,
injustice and environmental deterioration and, at the
same time, one built on freedom with the participation
of each of the great cultures that are part of mankind,
without preference or prejudice.
It is extremely important that when we are about
to conclude not just a century but also a millennium on
31 December, we stop for a moment along the way to
reflect on the future of international relations. Peru is
certainly not a decisive country in the development of
global relations. Nevertheless it would seem that one of
the characteristics that appear at the end of the
twentieth century and that will certainly be emphasized
in the twenty-first century is the basic role that all
countries of the world, whether large or small, have to
play in shaping the international order. And, in this
sense, the perspective of a country, such as Peru that
fully shares Western civilization and yet at the same
has its own characteristics that are the legacy of ancient
times, may be of interest in carrying out the healthy
exercise of approaching the subject from a different
angles.
24

Peru emphatically reiterates that the global order
that must shape the conduct of the different
international actors within the century beginning on l
January, must be based on the essential principles of
the Charter which, contrary to certain beliefs that we
believe to be mistaken, have not only not lost
relevance, but are increasingly important for peaceful
coexistence, collective security and also for a real
possibility for the development of all the specific
groups that form part of the abstract element that we
call mankind.
May I emphasize, in particular, the rights that
refer to the sovereignty of States, to non-intervention in
their domestic affairs and to the legal equality between
States. These basic principles, which were incorporated
in the Charter in San Francisco, have allowed the
development of effective mechanisms of self-control
and the stabilization of the international system.
That is why we must renew our commitment to
these rules of international public law, restoring the
functionality that is theirs. Only thus can we ensure
that the democratic values that prevail in contemporary
society will apply and be enforced within an
international system whose emerging features appear to
seek new forms of exclusion.
The world today is not the same as the world of
50 years ago. Change and globalization are constantly
reshaping reality at a rapid rate and are attempting to
impose upon us a new sense of commonality, new
morals and a new political ethic that dogmatically and
in a partisan manner define what is proper and
improper.
Full respect for the international legal order
therefore acquires enormous significance since it is the
only element that can illuminate the common path,
reducing arbitrariness and subjectivity. This is also the
best way and the most effective mechanism for the full
protection of human rights and human freedom, which
are undoubtedly requirements that no member of the
international community may evade.
But this new reality also imposes on us a need for
commitment to the principle of shared responsibility.
The profound interdependence posed by globalization
also assumes a collective determination by all the
members of the United Nations community to combine
their efforts and resources for the resolution of
problems that have systemic effects or effects of an
international nature. I refer in particular to the
achievement of lasting economic growth within the
developing countries; poverty elimination; confronting
the real threats to peace of an international scope;
public health problems and endemic illnesses that are
mainly linked to poverty; finding sufficient financing
for development; the digital divide; migration and the
free movement of labour; environmental protection and
conservation; the world drug problem, beyond a purely
military perspective; the scourge of terrorism and the
various forms of international crime, including money
laundering, arms trafficking and international
trafficking in people.
It is highly important for Peru that each of these
common problems be tackled within the framework of
the United Nations and that common, coherent and
comprehensive answers be found. We must be capable
of finding effective solutions with sufficient political
and financial support. In this context, let me express
our particular satisfaction over the commitments made
by the heads of State and Government to focus the
international community's attention in the coming
years on poverty reduction, so that by the year 2015
nearly 600 million people will have overcome their
state of chronic poverty.
Similarly, I wish to emphasize the imaginative
and constructive proposal presented by the President of
Peru, Mr. Alberto Fujimori, at the Millennium Summit,
to use the money illegally earned by captured drug
traffickers to alleviate the foreign debt of the poorest
countries and, in general, to utilize those funds to
contribute to the fight against poverty in the world.
There are undoubtedly many and very difficult
challenges that we must face during the next century.
This is the time of wealth and technological
development, but also the time of struggle against
poverty. This is the time of globalization, but also the
time of the respectful recognition of cultural diversity,
which is an asset as important as, or more important
than, biological diversity. This is the time of the
greatest use of natural resources by man, but also the
time of environmental conservation. This is the time of
the universal spread of democracy, but also the time of
democratic respect for the different ways in which
democracy is lived.
Mankind has reached some basic consensuses at
this stage of its development. All the peoples of the
world share certain values and certain goals, such as
freedom, democracy, equality before the law, respect
25

for human rights, the need to eliminate poverty, the
development of creativity and the need for man to
always surpass itself. This has been the contribution of
modernity, the contribution of the latest centuries
consolidated in the twentieth century. But it is also true
that humanity is not made up, fortunately, of a single
culture. It is also true that these values should find
concrete forms of their realization through different
mentalities, in different latitudes, at different periods in
the history of each people. That is why post-modernity,
that world of the next century, must know how to
conserve and deepen the values that are the legacy of
modernity and carry forward its goals as much as
possible. But it must also acknowledge diversity; it
must know how to resolve dynamically the dilemma
between unity and multiplicity.
Perhaps the most complex of all these challenges,
the most difficult of all the coincidentiae oppositorum
that the twenty-first century will demand is to build an
international system based on a genuine democracy.
And by this I mean a democracy that does not consist
of imposing a political form in the image of and similar
to a specific system that is promoted as a model, a
democracy that is not built on the basis of a mere
check-list of institutions that have been taken from a
specific democratic experience and turned into
mandatory universal guidelines. Democracy is the
practice of diversity and tolerance. It is a recognition
that with regard to each subject, including the idea of
democracy itself, there can be different interpretations,
and none of them is entitled to ban the others. The task
that awaits us, then, during the next century is to
spread and promote democracy but, above all, to
further examine its own meaning to avoid
contradictions which would lead to its destruction.
How can we spread democracy without
endangering democracy itself? On the other hand, how
do we save diversity and particularity without ending
up with outdated nationalism? These are the major
problems of our time. They are the major dilemmas
that will have to be resolved in the twenty-first century.
Any idea of a crusade, even in the name of
democracy, is undemocratic, because it is intolerant.
And I would almost dare to say that any principle of
social organization that seeks to impose itself
universally has an undemocratic base. Thus,
paradoxically, the missionary enthusiasm for
democracy ends up affecting the nature of democracy
itself.
Democracy, in fact, implies a delicate and fragile
balance between the universal and the singular.
Singularity should not be sacrificed on the deified altar
of universality. Singularity should not be dissolved
within a claimed universality, and the singular should
even less be confused with the universal, assigning an
absolute value to what is no more than the historic
expression of a culture and of a time.
The attempts to apply on an international scale
domestic policies and local interpretations of values
have always failed. In the second half of the twentieth
century, we witnessed the spectacular collapse of
Soviet communism, which claimed to be the political
doctrine of the future, with which, following Hegel, we
would see the end of politics and therefore of history
and enter into a sort of rebuilt earthly paradise. The
claimed communist universality saw the birth within
itself of particularities and differences. Afterwards it
had to face other doctrines and world visions that were
alien to its principles and values; and contrary to what
communism expected, those different perspectives did
not vanish when faced with the presumed Marxist
truth. Rather, they won the ideological battle and made
communism and Soviet Russia disappear. I am
convinced that the same will happen with any doctrine,
whatever its perspective and the values that support it,
that claims to lead the world to the end of history.
This forces us to rethink certain ideas that are too
hastily — and, to my mind, inconsistently — becoming
commonplace. There is a certain scorn towards the idea
of sovereignty and towards the idea of the cultural
identity of peoples, under the pretext of building a
universal society. Nevertheless, I believe that, even
though they will need to be transformed and adapted to
a new globalizing outlook, those ideas will continue to
prevail in the world of the future if we favour a
genuinely democratic way of thinking, in which
freedom can also exist under cultural and ideological
differences.
There is no doubt that there is a crisis in the
nation-State, because the seemingly essential
identification between the State as the political and
juridical organization of society and the nation as a
cultural organization is false: multinational States do
exist. The solution in these cases of disparity between
the political and cultural organization is not to abandon
the concept of State and sovereignty, letting them be
absorbed within one of the supranational, globalizing
constructs; rather, it lies in achieving within the State
26

an acknowledgement and complex integration of
multiculturality. It is necessary to articulate diversity at
both the State and international levels instead of
imposing some sort of homogeneity that will always
feel like a strait-jacket.
The new international order cannot be built by a
single nation, culture or ideology, but by the interaction
of the different attitudes that make up humanity. From
a genuinely democratic and liberal point of view, we
must avoid the temptation of the new dogmatism,
perversely subtle and with a powerful imperialist
vocation: the myth of “political correctness”.
In this regard, building a new international order
for the twenty-first century does not mean solving a
mathematical equation or scientifically designing a
model to be applied generically to all the countries of
the world in a vain attempt to create a universal
international society. Reality sweeps away all
abstractions with the wealth of its multiple points of
view. Moreover, reality is always dynamic and
effervescent. It is always in a permanent state of
transformation, thanks to freedom, the defining
element of the human being.
Therefore, politics, whether domestic or
international, is an art, not a science. A domestic or
international order must be the result of a complex
interaction between different, and even opposing,
elements, just like a work of art. Creating the work of
art that will be the new international order implies not
destroying what is counter to it, but, rather, combining
it; combining unity with diversity and freedom with
order. To put it in Nietzschean terms, we have to unite
the Apollonian with the Dionysian. To build a purely
Apollonian society is to fall into a new form of
dogmatism and cultural dictatorship, even though,
paradoxically, the intention is to establish democracy.
Building a purely Dionysian society means slipping
into chaos and therefore destroying the social contract.
The society of the future must be capable of
living with diversity and expressing different points of
view, world visions and interpretations of democracy
itself in order to establish an organization of
humankind that creates not a single and homogenous
international society, but an embodiment of the wealth
of social and cultural diversity in search of peaceful
coexistence and reciprocal cooperation without burdens
or conditions.

===== Session 56 - 2001 =====
﻿This is the first time I have had the privilege of
addressing this prestigious world forum. To arrive here,
I travelled a long road. I was born in a small village
high in the Andes, at an altitude of nearly 4,000 metres
above sea level. Like millions of brothers from our
continent of Latin America, I know first-hand the hard
face of poverty.
To survive, in my childhood, I sold newspapers,
lottery tickets and shined the shoes in which others
walked.
Today, I have come before this world assembly as
the constitutional President of Peru, bringing the
stories, the hopes and the dreams of millions of
Peruvians.
I come from a country that is heir to an ancient
culture and the cradle of great civilizations. I come to
lead our present with responsibility and to construct
our future with vision. Thus, in these few brief
minutes, I would like to share with the Assembly three
subjects that are of the greatest concern to my
Government:
First of all, I would like to be clear about one
thing: we are engaged in a head-on struggle against
terrorism and its perverse alliance with drug trafficking
and corruption. These are scourges for which there can
be no room for ambiguity. With the same
determination, however, I need to point out that the
world is facing the enormous challenge of mustering
the necessary clear vision so as not to put off the
human development agenda, which in large measure is
the underlying principle of the United Nations.
Secondly, there is the need to reduce military
expenditures in Latin America and in the world, so that
these resources can be channelled instead into a direct
fight against poverty.
Thirdly, we need to think and act together in
dealing with the world economic situation to protect
employment opportunities and income for the poorest.
There can be no real democracy without sustained
economic growth that will generate decent jobs.
Barely a year ago, Peru was enmeshed in a
dramatic struggle between a corrupt dictatorship and
the hopes for democracy of the vast majority of the
Peruvian people. Faced with this situation, we
Peruvians stood up and proved capable of mobilizing
ourselves and peacefully struggling to regain our
democracy and our freedom. On behalf of millions of
men and women of my country, I would like to thank
the peoples and Governments of the world for their
friendship, active role and solidarity in helping us
regain our democracy.
Today, Peru has now begun a new democratic
dawn. We are aware, however, that we have great
responsibilities. We must strengthen a full-fledged
democracy and our still fragile institutions and
reactivate our economy so as to achieve sustainable
growth that will generate decent and productive jobs.
We must strengthen our institutions and defeat poverty,
which form an indissoluble part of the same goal,
because poverty, corruption and drug trafficking
conspire against democracy. We can now declare, here
before the international community, that the time has
come to give a human face to globalization, so that
competitiveness becomes permanent.
We Peruvians have freshly inscribed in our
collective memory a horror of terrorism. During the 20
years of terror, Peru has lost 25,000 human lives, which
has cost more than $30 billion and has left the poor
even poorer. That is why I reaffirm our deep solidarity
with the people and Government of the United States in
the face of the insanity of terror of 11 September. This
was not an attack against the United States alone. It
was an attack against the peoples that believe in peace
and democracy, for all our differences of opinion.
We are determined to take unambiguous actions
to fight terrorism. We shall do so in the spirit of respect
for religious freedoms and ethnic identity. We will
actively contribute to the work that has been entrusted
to the ad hoc Committee of the Security Council,
making available to it the experts that may be
necessary to intelligently fight the threat of
international terrorism within the framework of the
principles of the Charter and the decisions of the
Security Council.
At an inter-American multilateral forum, we
made an effective contribution. This week we
introduced before the Organization of American States
a draft convention against terrorism. In keeping with
this purpose, this morning we deposited at the
Secretary-General’s office the following instruments:
the Statute of the International Criminal Court; the
9

International Convention for the Suppression of
Terrorist Bombings; and the International Convention
for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism.
Thus, my country has become a party to all
international treaties against terrorism.
Our States must build up an extensive network of
obligations to effectively cooperate in the judicial,
police, information and financial fields to facilitate the
capture and extradition of the perpetrators of crimes
against humanity or of acts of corruption that lead to
such crimes. Human rights violations and corruption
are two sides of the same coin. They spell impunity.
It would not be possible to face up to corruption
without linking it with the fight against drug trafficking
and money laundering. We are working hard in this
regard. We have established high-level authorities
directly under the head of State to wage the fight
against drug trafficking and corruption.
I know that this is a decision that impinges upon
powerful interests. We shall not be swayed from our
determination. Peru is now seeking to re-establish
democracy to the fullest. We are aware, however, that
there are powerful forces hidden in the shadows,
which, with certain political accomplices, are trying to
achieve impunity for the corruption committed during
the decade of Montesinos and Fujimori. That is why,
addressing you from this prestigious forum, I call on
the international community not to allow, as the
globalization of justice process, for capricious
interpretation of certain national laws that trivialize
actions or allow for the granting of impunity.
There is no justification for a democratic
government to sacrifice development of the poor for
the sake of an arms race. Therefore, the second issue
central to our foreign policy is our proposal, which we
put to the Heads of State and Government of Latin
America, for an immediate freeze on the purchase of
offensive weapons in the region. We also seek an
agreement among the countries of Latin America to
reduce their military expenditures and to reorient their
financial resources towards investment in nutrition,
health and education.
Peru has recently achieved important agreements
on this issue with the brotherly countries of Chile and
Ecuador and is promoting an understanding among the
other countries of our region that will allow us to
embark together on the path towards the reduction of
poverty there. Peace is not only the silence of guns; it
should also mean dignity for the poor. This proposal is
aimed at the adoption of a broad regional framework to
reduce military spending. However, might we not also
consider expanding this proposal, which is not a new
one, to other regions around the globe? We must invest
in the great enterprise of knowledge — in the minds of
our people. That means investing more, and more
wisely, in nutrition, health and education.
The third item relates to our concern about the
global economy. We regret the onset of recession in the
most important developed economies, which is
shrinking markets, eliminating jobs and thus hindering
the implementation of the measures set out in the
Millennium Declaration. There is an urgent need to
control the damage being done to the poor economies
by the current global economic crisis. It is therefore
important that the next round of the World Trade
Organization not be an aseptic commercial round. It
should be a round on behalf of the poorest, avoiding
protectionist policies for the agricultural sector of the
industrialized countries and allowing the textile
industry to create good jobs in our countries.
I call on the people of the world to embark
unflinchingly and without fear on the path towards a
future of peace and democracy, without terrorism,
without violations of human rights and without
impunity. I am convinced that, together, we can build a
globalized, competitive yet united world with a human
face. In that respect, Peru assumes its responsibility
today before the General Assembly.

===== Session 57 - 2002 =====
﻿Mr. President, may I first of all congratulate you on
your election to an office of high responsibility in the
United Nations. The best wishes of the Peruvian people
and their Government go also to the delegations
gathered here for an event that coincides with our
12

commemoration of the sad moments that one year ago
put to the test the feelings and solidarity of humankind.
Human beings cannot and must not, either as
individuals or as a species, cease their efforts to make
history rational. Because it is that effort to give a sense
of freedom and justice to collective living that alone
can humanize life.
As President of Peru I reaffirm from this rostrum
the commitment of the Government and the people of
Peru to the international community to fight resolutely
in favour of democracy and international security,
which my country considers fundamental to human
development.
The world has put an enormous challenge before
us, the challenge of globalizing security. Without that
security our economies cannot grow and our nations
cannot develop socially, for it is clear that global
insecurity conspires against the poor.
For that same reason, and driven by our
democratic convictions, I wish to reaffirm here,
without ambiguity, my firm condemnation of the
insanity of the terrorist attacks perpetrated against the
people of the United States on 11 September 2001, and
to reaffirm the solidarity of the Peruvian people and
Government to our friend the United States of
America. My Government will continue to support the
international community's efforts to confront, always
within the framework of international law, the cruel
and irrational ravages of international terrorism.
In that regard, Peru pledges before this Assembly
to continue to cooperate with the Security Council's
Counter-Terrorism Committee by making available the
experts it needs in order to counter with intelligence
and resolve the threats and acts of international
terrorism, consistent with the principles of the Charter
of the United Nations and Security Council resolutions.
We are convinced that our nations must weave a
vast network of commitments if we are to cooperate
effectively in all fields in order to defeat terrorism.
Peace, democracy and human rights, along with
freedom of expression, are the concepts that must be
given priority in the process of globalization. And to
that end, Peru supports every effort to reach a
consensus in the negotiation of a draft comprehensive
convention against terrorism.
Peru is a party to 12 United Nations conventions
which relate to the fight against terrorism and, in that
regard, we call upon those States that have not yet done
so to sign and ratify these conventions. I refer in
particular to the International Convention for the
Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism and the
International Convention for the Suppression of
Terrorist Bombings. That would be a decisive step
towards the eradication of this scourge, which threatens
peace, security and democracy, creating instability and
jeopardizing the development of our peoples.
We make this appeal from the perspective of a
country that lived for more than 20 years with the
violence of terrorism, which took more than 20,000
lives and cost billions of dollars in material losses.
Peace is not just a beautiful sentiment; it is the
principal value shared by peoples and a prerequisite for
the development of our nations. On the basis of that
conviction, our Government is promoting, as one of the
main pillars of its foreign policy, a limit on military
expenditure at the regional level, with a view to freeing
up resources for social investment and to combating
want and abject poverty.
My country's commitment goes beyond mere
words. In 2002, consistent with our proposals, we have
taken the decision to reduce our military expenditure
by 20 per cent and to redirect the resources to health,
nutrition and education. I am pleased to be able to say
that we have made progress in this respect, and we are
gratified by our recent achievements in this area with
our fraternal country Chile.
Today more than ever, Peru would like to
reaffirm, before the international community, that is it
committed to the building of a participatory and
efficient system of collective security. To this end, we
are promoting the adoption of the Andean Charter for
Peace and Security, which was approved in June by the
ministers of foreign affairs and defence of the Andean
Community. Its resolute goal is to begin to formulate a
community policy of security and confidence-building,
establish an Andean zone of peace, improve and
expand confidence-building measures and thus reduce
the resources that are currently allocated to defence.
Peru is pleased to announce that, in compliance
with its commitments under the Ottawa Convention, it
has completed the process of destroying its arsenals of
anti-personnel mines. It is currently conducting its
largest demining operation to date, to reduce mines in
border regions, as part of an agreement signed in 1998
with the fraternal country Ecuador.
13

In the same context, our Government reaffirms
and renews its commitment to the creation of a South
American peace and cooperation zone, as declared in
Guayaquil, Ecuador, on 27 July, during a meeting of
South American heads of State or Government. We
propose the inclusion in the agenda of the General
Assembly of an item on the South American peace and
cooperation zone and will encourage the adoption of a
draft resolution in that regard.
With regard of the promotion of democracy, Peru
is today endeavouring fully to re-establish the
freedoms of its citizenry, strengthen its democratic
institutions and resolutely fight against corruption. Our
Government has begun this task with full respect for
democratic values, as well as for the independence of
the branches of State power. I would also like to
emphasize the efforts that we have been making to
consolidate our democracy through mechanisms of
coordination and political and social dialogue.
In July, my Government, the political parties, the
business sector, workers, churches and other civil
society organizations signed a national accord that
contains 29 long-term State policies to be implemented
by the current and future Governments over the next 20
years. This accord has characteristics that are unique in
the history of Peru, since for the first time various
political institutions and representatives of civil society
met and together committed themselves to continuity in
State policies in the areas of democracy, equality,
social justice, competitiveness and transparency in
political affairs.
Likewise, I would like to emphasize the signing,
at Peru's initiative, of the Inter-American Democratic
Charter, adopted by the Organization of American
States on 11 September 2001. The Charter is an
effective means of making the principles, norms and
mechanisms of collective action consistent throughout
the region. That system includes sanctions, to be
applied in cases of violations or breaches of democratic
institutions, with a view to promoting, preserving and
defending democracy in the Latin America.
In the framework of the United Nations, we also
encouraged the adoption by the Commission on Human
Rights of a draft resolution entitled “Further measures
to promote and consolidate democracy”, which set out,
for the first time within the United Nations system, a
set of criteria to determine whether or not a regime is
democratic. It includes so-called democratic clauses
and legitimizes collective action for the protection and
defence of democracy.
From another perspective, and bearing in mind
the objective of peace, the Government of Peru
believes that building peace and good governance is a
vital prerequisite for the preservation of liberty and the
attainment of mutual and more equitable development.
In that regard, Peru is aware of the urgent need
for multilateral efforts — particularly by the richest
countries — to strengthen democracy. That is why we
reiterate our proposal to create a mechanism of
financial solidarity for the defence of democracy and
good governance.
The time has come to be creative — to create a
mechanism for the financing of good governance and
democracy among our peoples. We have said that
democracy is costly. But democracy is a value that
transcends the vote, the ballot box and the institutions
of the State. It is founded on the deepest aspirations of
the majority of our peoples, who are seeking their own
development.
For that same reason, emerging democracies,
which are today plagued by instability and uncertainty,
urgently require new resources to facilitate public
investment in the economies of the region aimed at re-
energizing them, generating employment and
protecting them from adverse financial shock. We are
at a crossroads of Wall Street and Main Street, where
we must resolve the problems of our economies and yet
listen to the voices of our peoples demanding that their
just aspirations be met. Our proposal, which we are
taking from door to door, forum to forum, and soul to
soul, is based on the conviction that Peruvian
democracy is not an island in Latin America and the
world, and cannot therefore be evaluated in isolation
from global realities. We must insert Peru and Latin
America in an interconnected world. We state this with
the firm conviction that what is at stake is more than
Peru's democracy but rather the democracy of a system
that has proven to be the best.
My government, as I announced on the day when
I took office, wishes to be remembered in history as
one that, with full respect for democracy and all the
fundamental freedoms of men and women,
strengthened the development of Peru through
productive and dignified work and through the courage
to invest more in better nutrition, health and education.
For this will be the best way to overcome the poverty
14

of nations. We are committed to facing the great
problems and challenges of our time by building
democracy in a world that is more just and has greater
solidarity.
Today, at the beginning of the twenty-first
century, international democracy has a name: the
United Nations. If the United Nations is weak, then it
must be strengthened; if it is slow, it must be given the
means to act with greater effectiveness and speed. But
we cannot do without the framework of the United
Nations.
Peru is firmly committed to policies and values
that support sustainable development. I am pleased in
this regard to announce that today I shall be depositing
with the Secretary-General the instrument through
which Peru reaffirms the Kyoto Protocol. I call upon
all other members of the international community that
have not yet done so to ratify that international
instrument in order to stem and reduce gas emissions
that harm our nations. This also relates to the
phenomenon of El Niño, which has been afflicting Peru
and the countries of the Pacific with increasing
frequency and intensity.
I wish to reiterate the firm commitment of Peru,
first of all, to cooperate with all States in the
international fight against terrorism; secondly, to work
for peace and development, maintaining our proposal
to limit military expenditures in South America and
instead to dedicate those resources to the fight against
poverty; and thirdly, to strengthen international support
for democracy and good governance as an important
step in the battle that we are waging against poverty
and extreme poverty in our nations.

===== Session 58 - 2003 =====
﻿Peru has no doubt that multilateralism is the best
instrument for confronting global challenges, as well as
for guaranteeing peace and international security. For
that reason, the United Nations is indispensable. All
Member States must have the conviction to strengthen
it, to contribute to its institutional regeneration and to
reform it. With a reformed United Nations, we will
continue our struggle against poverty; we will maintain
the world development agenda; we will assure
democracy; and we will fight decisively against drug
trafficking and international terrorism.
The terrorist attacks taking place in different
areas of the world and the threats to peace in several
regions create an international climate of instability
and insecurity that calls for urgent solutions. Terrorism
conspires against the democracies of the world.
Terrorism conspires against the health of the world
economy. Terrorism contributes to making the poor
even poorer. Peru strongly condemns the terrorist
attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad
and wishes to pay sincere tribute to all the victims, in
particular to Sergio Vieira de Mello, Special
Representative of the Secretary-General.
We cannot accept terrorism as a political tool. In
our case, the 20 years of violence bequeathed by the
Sendero Luminoso is a hard lesson to cope with.
According to the final report of the Truth and
Reconciliation Commission, recently submitted to my
Government, thousands of lives were lost and more
than $30 billion in losses were reported. This report is
13

the result of a resolute political decision of our
Government to make sure that Peru never again has to
face irrational acts of terror.
Truth must also be a means to prevent impunity
and to lead us to reconciliation with justice. My
Government is firmly struggling against impunity. That
is why we consider that the fugitives who fled Peru
when the corrupt regime of the past decade was
overthrown should answer to justice for the gravity of
the crimes they committed. We will insure these people
a fair trial and all the guarantees of due process, within
the framework of the Inter-American Convention on
Human Rights and Peruvian law.
That is why we hope that our requests for
extradition will be taken into account. Democratic
States have the responsibility to avoid impunity. In this
regard, the Peruvian State wishes in this Assembly to
thank the 20 friendly countries that have announced
their decision to detain anyone on the list of
extraditables if they enter their territories.
Poverty, social exclusion and fundamentalist
ideologies are among the causes of the current crises.
The hopes of our countries to be part of an inclusive
globalization are not bearing fruit. Despite some
achievements at the national level, there is a wide
chasm to bridge if we are to build such an inclusive
globalization. For example, in the case of Peru, despite
an unfavourable international environment the
economy grew by 5.2 per cent last year, one of the
highest rates in Latin America. Inflation was below 1
per cent, international reserves rose to their highest
level yet, and exports reached unprecedented figures.
However, we must concede that all these
indicators are not enough to make the common people
feel the benefits of such macroeconomic achievements
in their own pockets. Today, it is necessary for the
global economy to reach an annual average growth of 7
to 8 per cent if we wish to reduce poverty and to create
employment. If we in the developing world,
particularly in Latin America, grow by 6 or 7 per cent,
it will barely be enough to recover the per capita
income of 1970. We have to achieve adequate growth
as soon as possible. The poor cannot wait another 15
years for their economies to grow in a sustained
manner that will reduce poverty.
Democratic governance in Latin America is at
risk. There is no doubt that there is a correlation
between the health of the world economy, social
inclusion and democratic governance. World leaders
cannot close their eyes. There is no possible
governance without a reduction of poverty. We must be
creative and courageous in order to ensure that Wall
Street's macroeconomic requirements meet the
expectations of Main Street.
Last year before this Assembly, I highlighted the
need to defend democracy from market turbulence by
creating innovative financial mechanisms. We said that
the time had come to build a new global consensus to
reaffirm democracy and re-evaluate development with
social equity. Since then, Peru has been working on a
series of initiatives in this regard. Last May, 19
democracies of Latin America and the Caribbean,
members of the Rio Group   over which I have the
honour to preside   approved a key document that we
call the Cusco Consensus. This document comprises
four Peruvian initiatives on innovative financial
mechanisms that allow us to finance democratic
governance in the region; to increase public investment
in roads, hospitals and schools; to create jobs; and to
supplement private investment.
In relation to one of these proposals, last August,
jointly with the President of Brazil, Luiz In·cio Lula da
Silva, we decided to work together on the
establishment of the South American Infrastructure
Authority project, which will operate as a fiduciary
agency to facilitate the financing of investment projects
for the integration of South America. I am sure that
that experience can be duplicated in other parts of the
world.
Likewise, we have signed a memorandum of
understanding on physical and economic integration to
set into motion three axes of development
integration   in Peru, Bolivia, Brazil and Ecuador  
on the road to South America's integration.
Accordingly, Peru signed an agreement that will lead to
the creation of a free trade zone with MERCOSUR.
From this international forum, we would like reiterate
that those efforts and achievements in the area of
integration constitute decisive steps on the path
towards building a South American community of
nations. However, I wish to point out that, beyond the
decisions that two or more countries of the subregion
may take, it will be essential for the international
community to commit itself to the initiatives emanating
from an exercise in collective reflection.
14

Developing nations are concerned about the
alarming increase in external vulnerabilities resulting
from instability in financial flows and their impact on
investment levels and economic growth in our region.
Those countries also perceive the presence of
protectionism in the area of trade, in particular on the
part of certain industrialized nations. I would like to be
frank in this connection: we ask developed countries
not to demand that we open our markets while they
protect their products with billions of dollars in
subsidies every year, especially in the agricultural
sector. Our countries can no longer withstand
asymmetrical relations in the area of trade. The time
has come to build a two-way business highway that is
more transparent and predictable. We are being asked
to open up our markets in the agricultural sector while
there are still countries that are investing billions of
dollars every day to subsidize their own products. Do
not ask us to practice something that you do not
practice yourselves. Our countries are aware of the fact
that we have to be competitive, but we must build that
two-way commercial highway.
Peru is especially concerned about the negative
results of the recently held ministerial conference of
the World Trade Organization in Cancun, which,
despite some progress, was unable to reach consensus.
There is a continuing desire for multilateralism and
free trade in Peru. We therefore trust that there will be
a return to negotiation in the next few months so as to
realize the goals set out at Doha, which placed
development foursquare on the agenda of the WTO.
We have an obligation to build a more just, secure
and humane world. That is why today I ask the United
Nations and our great friend of peace, Secretary-
General Kofi Annan, to exercise their great authority
and prestige to promote within the World Bank, the
International Monetary Fund, the Inter-American
Development Bank and the member countries of the
Group of 8 a wide debate on the innovative financial
mechanisms that will make it possible to finance
democratic governance in the region; increase public
investment in schools, hospitals and roads; generate
jobs and promote private investment. That is the only
way by which globalization can be inclusive, and by
which governance can be strengthened. May God bless
peace in the world.











===== Session 59 - 2004 =====
Allow me to join previous speakers in congratulating
you on your election to the presidency of the fifty-
ninth session of the General Assembly.
The world of the twenty-first century faces a
paradox. It is unified globally in the areas of
production, such as trade, finance and in the digital
revolution of information and communication
technology - yet it is divided by the increase in
conflicts, civil strife and transnational terrorism, as
well as cultural and ethnic violence. The world is
unified by universal values, such as democracy, human
rights and respect for freedom of expression and the
environment - yet it is divided when democracy
clashes with social demands for more jobs and less
hunger.
Those contradictory trends of globalization and
fragmentation jeopardize governance not only at the
international level, but also within nations. Conflicts
sharpen; many poor States are rocked by domestic and
external violence; terrorist organizations and traffickers
in drugs, weapons and persons are emerging and
amassing devastating global power.
Since the end of the cold war, more than 30 civil
conflicts have caused approximately 5 million deaths
and created almost 17 million refugees. In 2004, the
United Nations has been administering 15
peacekeeping operations and 15 special political
missions. That means that 16 per cent of Member
States are affected by issues undermining peace and
international security.
In a context in which no single Power can assure
global governance, in a world where fragmentation
abets nuclear threats, both nations and peoples demand
urgent decisions ó decisions ensuring global
governance based on international law, increased
respect for the United Nations, within a renewed and
strengthened multilateralism, and the reinforcement of
the values of peace and international justice.
In the global era, the world requires broad
consensus. Peru considers that the best solution is to be
found through both change and continuity. We must
stabilize the world political situation and generate an
international alliance for development and social
justice. We call for continuity in order to attain the
goals of the United Nations. We call for peace,
security, juridical equality of States, the non-use of
force, the prohibition of aggression, the international
rule of law governing relations among States,
international cooperation, economic and social
development and respect for human rights ó all of
which are more necessary and have more validity today
than ever before.
We also propose a change of tools, mechanisms
and measures. The reform of the Security Council must
be tackled realistically, bearing in mind its role as a
mechanism for collective security for the international
community as a whole. The people want a Security
Council with guarantees of legitimate and effective
decisions.
5

Peru is a country whose diplomatic tradition,
since the nineteenth century, has supported
multilateralism as the best means for international
decisions, particularly to promote peace and
development. Peru participates in United Nations
peacekeeping operations. My country is contributing
military troops in Cyprus, on the border between
Ethiopia and Eritrea and in the Democratic Republic of
the Congo, and we are participating in Liberia and in
CÙte díIvoire. Recently, my Government decided to
send a fully equipped company to help achieve
stability, security and the reinstitutionalization of
democracy in the Republic of Haiti.
As a result of our long-standing participation in
maintaining peace and security and in promoting
development, Peru has announced its candidacy for a
non-permanent seat on the Security Council during the
period 2006-2007. We are grateful for the considerable
support that we have received and for the favourable
consideration given to our candidacy.
Today, 2.8 billion people live on $2 per day; 1.3
billion people subsist on $1 per day. Moreover, in the
1990s, social inequality became more pronounced
throughout the world. According to the Worldwatch
Institute, that increase in inequality affected not only
personal incomes, but also access to water, food and
energy ó public goods essential for civilized life and
socio-political stability. Today, the decrease in personal
incomes and the increase in inequality are colliding
like tectonic plates, producing tremors of social
disintegration and international conflict.
Therefore, we in the international community
must understand that the peace, security and stability
of the world system are not related solely to political,
military or strategic aspects. Peace and security have
social and economic components. Poverty and
exclusion militate against peace, security and
democracy. Social exclusion produces violence,
instability and national and international fragmentation
and renders democracy fragile. We cannot overcome
that situation if we do not cause globalization to have a
human face and to become a positive force that
provides tangible benefits to all nations and all human
beings.
The rule of law and the international legal order
must guarantee access to justice and respect for human
rights. The rule of law must prevent impunity. At the
same time, democratic societies must make
transparency and the fight against corruption true
policies of the State.
Peru, before the process of recovering its
democracy, was captive to corruption, systematic
human rights violations and the subjugation of justice
to political power. The corrupt and authoritarian
Government hijacked democracy, tortured
systematically and made corruption a tool of political
power. Today, the free consciences of Peru demand that
those responsible be brought to justice. Therefore, I
appeal to the Government of Japan to contribute to
access to justice by authorizing the extradition of
former President Alberto Fujimori for the crimes
against humanity with which Peruvian justice has
charged him, including his alleged responsibility for
acts of torture, forced disappearances, summary
executions and acts of corruption. Democratic Peru
guarantees a fair trial and due process under the rule of
law. I make this appeal in the conviction that the rule
of law and the international legal order must guarantee
access to justice. To deny such access is tantamount to
enshrining impunity, and I am sure that the
international order is not prepared to consider itself an
accomplice to such impunity. We hope that that will
not happen.

===== Session 60 - 2005 =====
Allow 
me first, Sir, to congratulate you on your election to the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixtieth 
session. 
 I should like to avail myself of this opportunity to 
express from the very bottom of the Peruvian heart our 
sincere feeling of solidarity with the women and men 
of the United States who have suffered as a result of 
the natural disasters in Mississippi, Alabama and other 
southern states. Their suffering is shared by us, just as 
we would share suffering anywhere in the world. I am 
sure that the faith and hope of the people of the United 
States will enable them to overcome this tragedy. 
 A year ago in this forum (see A/59/PV.5) I spoke 
of the need to face, with vision and realism, the new 
challenges now facing us, the developing countries in 
particular. On the one hand, our countries are 
becoming part of the globalization of production, trade, 
financial flows, the digital telecommunications 
revolution, and the spread of values such as democracy 
and human rights. At the same time, however, the 
world is fragmented by an increase in social inequities, 
the proliferation of civil wars, the collapse of States, 
genocide, terrorism, transnational crime and 
environmental degradation. These contradictory trends 
of globalization on the one hand and fragmentation on 
the other, call into question the governance within 
States and within the international system, and 
ultimately call into question international collective 
security itself. 
 Peace and security and the stability of the global 
system are not related only to political, military and 
strategic issues. Peace and security also have social 
and economic components. Poverty and exclusion 
conspire against peace, security and democracy. Social 
exclusion triggers violence and instability, renders 
democracy fragile and leads to national and 
international fragmentation.  
 That is why we must agree on action to confront 
these contradictions. That is the main commitment that 
we as States undertook at the recent High-level Plenary 
Meeting on the Millennium Goals, and that is what the 
United Nations and the multilateral system as a whole 
must tackle next. That is why I am highlighting the two 
main axes along which these commitments must 
develop. I refer to security on the one hand and 
development on the other. 
 While each country is responsible for its own 
development, it must be recognized that development 
encounters obstacles at the international level that call 
for new partnerships and new forms of association. 
These must go beyond the assistance-based paradigm 
characterizing much so-called development assistance. 
And, more important, they must overcome the 
asymmetry that currently prevails in relations between 
developed and developing countries. 
 On the one hand, developing countries are being 
asked to commit to open their markets, to foreign 
investment regimes and to reforming their public 
administrations. We agree with all of that. But there is 
no matching solid commitment that developed 
countries will, as promised, allocate 0.7 per cent of 
their gross national product (GNP) for cooperation. 
Nor — even less — do we see obstacles to foreign 
trade being dismantled.  
 The new partnership for development has to 
overcome adverse factors for developing countries and 
eliminate obstacles such as rigid intellectual property 
standards, the speculative volatility of global capital, 
the lack of foreign investment, subsidies, the debt 
burden, and, above all, the absence of genuine special 
and differential treatment in trade negotiations for 
developing countries.  
 This is not only about receiving assistance to 
reduce poverty; it is also about a new association for 
development that will make it possible to generate 
employment and create wealth. Implementing this new 
partnership would fulfil Millennium Development Goal 
8 and the commitments made in the Monterrey 
Consensus. That is why it is necessary for the Doha 
round to be completed next year. That is tremendously 
important.  
 As the Millennium Declaration recognizes, a very 
important cross-cutting element in the partnership for 
development is assuring the sustainability of the 
environment. As proof of our commitment, I was proud 
  
 
8 05-51226 
 
some days ago to deposit the instruments of ratification 
of the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic 
Pollutants and the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior 
Informed Consent Procedure for Certain Hazardous 
Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade, both 
of which are intended to reduce the negative impact of 
pollution. 
 As it carries out its development agenda, the 
international system must strengthen collective security 
to confront threats such as terrorism, nuclear 
proliferation, and organized transnational crime. This 
year again, we have been shaken by acts of terrorism 
perpetuated all over the world. Peru suffered from, and 
combated, terror for many long years, and expresses its 
solidarity with the victims of these criminal acts. We 
reiterate our firm condemnation of all acts of terrorism 
and restate our commitment, through mutual 
cooperation, to prevent, combat, punish and eradicate 
terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. Peru 
appeals to the Assembly not to continue to delay the 
adoption of a comprehensive counter-terrorism 
convention.  
 For my Government, international peace and 
security is a prime objective, and we have adopted the 
following measures in that context. First, Peru is 
promoting the limitation of defence spending at the 
regional level in order to release resources for social 
investment. The first decision I adopted on my 
Government’s first day in office was to cut back 
military expenditure in my country by 23 per cent in 
order to allocate it to food, health, education and social 
investments. Progress in this field has been significant; 
there are agreements with Chile, Colombia and 
Ecuador to craft and implement standardized 
methodologies to reduce our military spending. 
 Secondly, Peru was an advocate of the creation of 
the South American Zone of Peace and Cooperation 
and the Andean Zone of Peace, which have been 
recognized in Assembly resolutions 57/13 and 59/54, 
respectively. 
 Thirdly, Peru participated actively in formulating 
the Programme of Action to Prevent, Combat and 
Eradicate the Illicit Trade in Small Arms and Light 
Weapons in All Its Aspects.  
 Fourthly, Peru is participating in peacekeeping 
operations by providing troops, staff officers, military 
observers and equipment. To increase our contribution 
in this area, Peru has signed a memorandum of 
understanding under the United Nations Stand-by 
Arrangements System, which includes army, air force 
and navy units. Currently, Peruvian Blue Helmets are 
participating in peacekeeping operations in Eritrea-
Ethiopia, Liberia, Côte d’Ivoire, Burundi, the Sudan 
and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, as well as 
in Cyprus and Haiti. We cherish peace. 
 For all these reasons, Peru is a candidate for a 
non-permanent seat on the Security Council for the 
term 2006-2007 in the elections to be held during this 
session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. 
I should like here to express Peru’s deep gratitude for 
the majority support for our candidacy; we now enjoy 
the widest possible support from Latin American and 
Caribbean countries as well as from our brother 
countries in Africa and Asia, the Arab League States 
and countries of Europe and of Oceania. This generous 
support encourages us and strengthens our commitment 
to work with dedication and responsibility in the 
Security Council. We are grateful for this opportunity 
and the support offered by countries worldwide for our 
candidature for a non-permanent seat on the Security 
Council for 2006-2007. 

===== Session 61 - 2006 =====
First, allow me to express to you, Madam President, 
our congratulations on your election to the presidency 
of the General Assembly at this session. I should also 
like to convey to you the best wishes of the people and 
Government of Peru for a successful stewardship. We 
are ready to work with you for the benefit of the 
international community. 
 When the Government of President Alan García 
took office on 28 July it found a particularly serious 
social deficit in the country. More than 13 million 
Peruvians, half our population, live in poverty; 
5 million of them, or 20 per cent of our population, live 
in extreme poverty. Peru is therefore experiencing a 
 
 
21 06-53609 
 
situation of deep inequity for a medium-income 
country.  
 In order to tackle this reality, the new 
Government has placed major emphasis on responsible 
State action, designing an agenda of social inclusion 
based on promoting investment for job creation. That 
agenda requires that we learn to act with greater 
solidarity, on the basis of civic values, with due 
attention given to the most vulnerable groups, so that 
they may fully participate in drawing up public 
policies. Initial action is aimed at restoring confidence 
in our society as a factor crucial for promoting long-
term development and shared growth. In this respect, 
my Government is working with the social sectors to 
develop a culture of duty as one of the main pillars 
supporting Government policies and the relationship 
between society and the State. 
 The Government of Peru has made the fight 
against poverty a central priority of its Administration. 
It has also set the guidelines for its external action, in 
which it aims to join the other nations of the Latin 
American region in drawing up a development agenda 
to achieve growth with equity and social inclusion. In 
this context, we reaffirm our conviction of the need to 
promote Latin American integration. For this purpose 
we are working on strengthening the Andean 
Community and building the South American 
Community of Nations. 
 That is the goal that inspires us, because in order 
to express the common interests of our continent in a 
world such as today’s we must act together to better 
tackle the challenges of globalization. A Latin America 
with a united voice will be better placed to tackle its 
common problems, such as the marginalization of wide 
sectors of the population, internal imbalances and 
social divisions. A more united Latin America can also 
better project the values of democracy and pluralism 
that characterize it today. In this framework, tolerance 
and respect for differences will make it possible to 
strengthen projects of common interest offering all our 
citizens true opportunities for development and well-
being. 
 One of the challenges that our continent, and in 
particular the Andean region, must face decisively is 
the fight against drug trafficking. Peru reaffirms its 
firm position of combating forcefully and 
comprehensively the illicit trafficking of drugs, 
emphasizing the principles of multilateralism and 
shared responsibility. To that end, we have been 
carrying out a careful evaluation of the current state of 
cooperation in the fight against illegal drug trafficking. 
Following the principle of shared responsibility, Peru 
has expressed an interest in holding an anti-drug 
summit, so that in the Andean area we can give new 
impetus to the dialogue on cooperation and agree with 
the United States and the European Union on a single 
consensus strategy, which would be mutually 
beneficial for the Andean producer countries and the 
large consumer markets. 
 Another universal scourge that the international 
community must fight unrelentingly is terrorism. Peru 
reiterates that terrorism, whatever its form or 
manifestation, or its motivation, is unacceptable and 
accordingly must be condemned and fought. States 
must show an unequivocal attitude towards terrorism. 
Peru therefore supports the efforts being made in the 
United Nations to fight terrorism. Among them, we 
note the approval of the Global Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy. We reaffirm our conviction that this struggle 
can and must be carried out with respect for human 
rights and fundamental freedoms. 
 In the Millennium Declaration we set ourselves 
the target of attaining by 2015 various goals in the 
fight against poverty and in the partnership for 
development, goals which summarize the challenges 
that countries such as Peru must tackle and overcome 
and the cooperation that developed countries must give 
in assisting development, trade and financing. 
However, at the 2005 World Summit we noted that 
progress in compliance with the Millennium 
Development Goals is somewhat modest, and some 
goals seem unattainable.  
 In order to comply with the Millennium 
Development Goals, the Government of Peru has taken 
immediate action, including, first, reform of the State 
and the political system to give it more austerity, 
through decentralization, administrative simplification 
and moral initiatives; secondly, job creation through 
investment and the opportunities that the State must 
promote; thirdly, restoration of labour and social rights 
in order to have a more modern and just society; 
fourthly, policies in favour of women, youth and 
children; and, fifthly, civic security to give the 
population tranquillity and confidence. None of that 
will be enough if the markets of developed countries 
remain closed to our products through restrictions. In 
  
 
06-53609 22 
 
this context, we call for the prompt resumption of the 
Doha Round talks in a spirit of compromise. 
 My Government’s social policy initiatives will 
make possible a broader exercise of human rights. I 
refer in particular to economic, social and cultural 
rights, where shortcomings are evident, and to paying 
particular attention to the most vulnerable groups.  
 In this respect, during the current session we will 
be called upon to consider and possibly adopt three 
important international instruments on promoting and 
protecting human rights. The first two are the draft 
declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples and the 
draft international convention on the rights of persons 
with disabilities. Peru urges every Member State to 
consider adopting these two instruments, which would 
give greater protection to millions of people who today 
are victims of marginalization. The third instrument is 
the draft convention on forced disappearance, which 
will make it possible to more effectively combat that 
reprehensible practice. 
 We are aware of the importance of 
multilateralism as the ideal context for low- and 
medium-income countries to take part in the 
international arena, as well as helping to find solutions 
to the challenges that the globalized world must face. 
These challenges result from the current characteristics 
of the international system, in which two opposing 
processes coexist. Thus, while the world integrates 
globally it is becoming more fragmented because of an 
increase in social inequality, the proliferation of civil 
conflicts and the disintegration of States, so-called 
ethnic cleansing, massive violations of human rights, 
the trafficking of people and arms, environmental 
degradation, terrorism and international organized 
crime.  
 These contradictory trends between globalization 
and fragmentation often call into question both the 
ability of States to govern and international stability, 
the major challenges that the international community, 
and in particular the Security Council, must face. 
Therefore, we need a comprehensive and strategic 
vision to make it possible to deal with problems 
affecting international peace and security. It is not only 
military aspects that cause crises. There are also 
structural factors, such as poverty, social exclusion and 
environmental degradation, which are the triggers of 
national and international instability. 
 If the Council does not take this reality into 
account it will be very difficult to prevent or resolve 
conflicts in a sustainable way, because it will mean 
putting to one side the most important variables. We 
therefore acknowledge the need to make the 
multilateral system more flexible, comprehensive and 
effective, in order to tackle the global challenges and 
threats. But, at the same time, the Security Council’s 
actions must be based on legitimacy, which accords the 
strictest respect for the values, purposes and principles 
of the Charter and international law. With this 
conviction, Peru is taking part in the Security Council 
in a coherent way and with a constructive spirit. 
 Given this premise, it is crucial to strengthen the 
disarmament and non-proliferation regimes and to find 
a peaceful solution to disputes. We supported the 
peacekeeping interventions authorized by the Security 
Council, and we will continue those efforts to ensure a 
renewed collective security system supported and 
respected by all Member States, in order to tackle 
threats to international peace and security. It is in this 
context that we see Peru’s participation in 
peacekeeping operations in Haiti, Sudan, the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Eritrea, Ethiopia, 
Liberia, Côte d’Ivoire, Burundi and Cyprus. This 
involves very sensitive matters and arduous 
responsibilities, but we assume them as a natural 
corollary to the commitment to international peace and 
security that we made when signing the Charter. We 
affirm our confidence that the Peacebuilding 
Commission will achieve the objective of supporting 
the reconstruction of countries emerging from conflict.  
 At the same time, we believe that we must step 
up our prevention efforts at the regional and 
subregional levels, which is why Peru promotes 
cooperative security through mechanisms to strengthen 
peace and security structures, whose development 
includes the need to prevent arms races between 
neighbouring countries. 
 Peru supports reform of the Security Council to 
make it more effective, transparent and representative. 
In this process, we favour increasing the number of 
members through dialogue and consensus, as part of a 
comprehensive process of United Nations reform, in 
which we have already seen some progress. The road 
ahead must be tackled with greater responsibility and 
in a spirit of dialogue and openness. 
 
 
23 06-53609 
 
 I wanted to share these concerns and ideas in 
order to reaffirm that Peru, on the basis of its own 
economic and social reality and its regional outreach, 
as well as its profound multilateral vocation, wishes to 
continue to contribute constructively to security, 
development and respect for human rights in the world. 
We are convinced that the United Nations system can, 
with the help of all, strengthen its central role of 
promoting social progress and raising the standard of 
living within the broadest concept of freedom, as 
stipulated in the Preamble to the Charter. 

===== Session 62 - 2007 =====
For Peru, Sir, your election as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-second session is a guarantee of 
experience and exceptional work. I am convinced that 
your performance will strengthen the principles of 
dialogue and coordination that guide the efforts of the 
United Nations to attain realistic commitments that 
contribute to well-being in the daily life of humankind. 
 On 15 August, an earthquake occurred in the city 
of Pisco, seriously impacting the southern populations 
of Peru, claiming priceless human lives and causing 
great material damage. The Peruvian people deeply 
appreciates the immediate and generous response of 
the international community, as well as the speedy 
action of the United Nations Office for the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs. The Office’s 
support showed that united action can make a 
difference in a crisis situation and contributed to the 
Government’s activities in attending to the urgent 
needs of the victims. Our sincere recognition goes to 
the cooperation received, which is now being 
channelled by my country’s Fund for Southern 
Reconstruction. 
 The stabilization and growth of the Peruvian 
economy over the past 76 months have generated 
national and international confidence and expectation. 
We are convinced that the investment and participation 
of our productive forces will allow us to maintain 
continuous growth and to exploit the opportunity to 
enhance a model and national project of social 
tranquillity and development. 
 In the first year of his Government, President of 
the Republic Alan García has laid the foundations for 
greater dynamic growth in the country. We must now 
consolidate and give practical and positive content to 
the democracy, governance and economic stabilization 
of the country in order to allow the growth indices to 
generate national confidence and participation that can 
be converted into transparency, equity, justice and 
social peace. 
 The struggle against poverty and inequity is the 
most formidable current challenge to the national and 
foreign policies of Peru. In the conviction that the 
dignity of human beings and their welfare are at the 
core of governmental management, and that economic 
indicators should be based on the well-being of our 
population without distinction, the Government of Peru 
has redefined its social policy through a concept of 
productive inclusion, access to education and 
technological innovations, territorial institutional 
development and support for the population. To that 
end, we have begun implementing a national strategy 
of rural development and a national strategy of food 
security to address chronic child malnutrition. 
Important road infrastructure works will complement 
the incorporation of the Peruvian Andes and Amazonia 
into the development of the country. 
 Towards the fulfilment of the Millennium 
Development Goals, Peru has set itself the concrete 
goal of reducing the current level of poverty from 50 
per cent to 30 per cent by 2011. Chronic malnutrition 
will be reduced from 25 per cent to 16 per cent, and the 
provision of potable water and electricity will be 
extended to 90 per cent of citizens. Likewise, we plan 
to eradicate illiteracy, reduce employment in the 
informal sector from 53 per cent to 35 per cent, create 
1.5 million jobs, and reduce the external debt from 24 
per cent to 13 per cent of the gross domestic product.  
 The Government’s new direction in State action 
is focused on decentralization. The strategic 
decentralization plan goes beyond the mere transfer of 
resources or the execution of public works in the 
interior of the country. The regions can now coordinate 
their own development plan, efficiently distribute more 
than 80 per cent of the national budget, interlink and 
gradually integrate Peru as a whole, and promote the 
better distribution of the population and income 
through a process of national institutionalization that 
supports optimal care of the environment. 
 Peru has become one of the emerging countries of 
the region thanks to the continuous growth of its 
economy over the past eight years. Its strategic 
location in the South American Pacific, the full force of 
a modern legal framework that encourages investment 
and exports, the diversity of its natural resources, its 
growing diversification in the global markets, and its 
political and macroeconomic stability are factors that 
ensure a development process of genuine social 
inclusion. 
 Much remains to do. In the face of the 
uncertainty of the Doha Round negotiations and a 
cautious evaluation of the effective possibilities of 
integration in the Andean subregion and Latin America, 
Peru is striving to conclude free trade treaties with its 
major commercial partners that will complement 
regional and subregional integration schemes and 
multilateral trade negotiations. In the Andean 
Community   comprised of Peru, Colombia, Ecuador 
and Bolivia   Peru has an up-to-date free-trade zone. 
Likewise, Peru has entered into free-trade treaties with 
Chile and the United States, and is negotiating similar 
instruments with Canada and Mexico. Negotiations 
with the Central American countries are scheduled to 
begin shortly. We have finished negotiating a free-trade 
agreement with Singapore, negotiations with Thailand 
have reached an “early harvest” agreement, and we 
have begun to negotiate a free-trade agreement with the 
People’s Republic of China. Likewise, the negotiation 
of an agreement of association between the Andean 
Community and the European Union has begun. Our 
priorities are now to pursue negotiations with Korea, 
Japan, India, Russia, Australia and New Zealand. 
Our objectives are clear: to ensure access to the 
markets of our main commercial partners; to establish 
fair and predictable commercial rules and regulations 
that complement the standards of the World Trade 
Organization; to diversify the markets for our exports 
of goods and services; and to attract investment and 
technologies to modernize our productive structure, 
reduce the technology gap, and modernize Peru’s 
physical infrastructure in order to increase its 
competitiveness. 
 Following on the results of a regressive utopian 
experiment in Latin America, we are convinced that 
Peru’s model of integration into the global economy, 
while consolidating regional economic expansion, will 
allow us to ensure the participation of the large 
majority of our people in the system’s benefits, with 
concrete improvements in their daily lives. It will 
thereby contribute to the people’s sense of belonging to 
their social institutions and of full citizenship, as well 
as to their perception of themselves as agents of social-
economic change and to the consolidation of the 
democratic system. 
 In the framework of such integration, my country 
is also assuming growing international responsibilities. 
In our efforts to foment dialogue, we are deeply 
honoured to be able to organize a summit of heads of 
State and Government of Latin America and the 
Caribbean and the European Union, as well as the 
summit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation 
Forum, both of which will take place in Peru in 2008. 
 Formidable technological advances, especially in 
the information field; the emergence of new powers; 
energy insecurity; climate change; growing inequity 
and poverty; and new challenges to international 
security characterize a changing and ever-more 
complex international scene to which States and 
international institutions must adapt. Global society is 
interlinked through productive processes, trade, 
financial flows, the digital telecommunications 
revolution, and so on.  
 In this complicated scenario, Peru is participating 
in the Security Council and in peacekeeping 
operations. The Peruvian armed forces are present in 
the Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, 
Ethiopia and Eritrea, Liberia, Côte d’Ivoire and Haiti. 
 Peru attaches special importance to cooperation 
with Haiti, having assumed in January the coordination 
of the Group of Friends of Haiti in the Security 
Council. In that regard, we support the renewal of the 
mandate of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in 
Haiti (MINUSTAH) for a year, as well as the gradual 
reorientation of its work to promote development, in 
support of its multidisciplinary and multidimensional 
work. At present, we are contributing a contingent of 
Peruvian military officers, which we expect to be able 
to complement shortly with an engineering corps. 
 Our permanent representation in New York has 
presented a draft resolution that, inter alia, reaffirms 
the urgent call to fulfil the contribution pledges, 
pursuant to the priorities presented by the Haitian 
Government, especially for cooperation projects to 
eradicate poverty, improve basic health services and 
strengthen national institutions. We expect the draft 
resolution to enjoy consensus in the Security Council 
so that the international contribution to Haiti can 
continue. 
 Last May, Peru, with the cooperation of Norway 
and the United Nations Development Programme, 
organized the Lima Conference on Cluster Munitions, 
assuming a lead regional role in the endorsement of the 
Oslo Process. At the Conference, Peru presented to the 
69 delegations of the participating countries a proposal 
to secure a declaration of the Latin-American region as 
a zone free of cluster munitions, which have 
indiscriminate effects on civilians. Our initiative 
already enjoys the support of many countries of our 
region. 
 Peru is also committed to effectively 
implementing the Convention on the Prohibition of the 
Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-
personnel Mines and on Their Destruction. Peru is in 
the final stages of preparing a national plan of action 
against anti-personnel mines with a view to completing 
the demining process along our northern frontier, in 
cooperation with the brotherly country of Ecuador.  
 Moreover, Peru is firmly committed to efforts to 
attain complete disarmament and the non-proliferation 
of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, as well as 
their delivery systems, which constitute a threat to 
international peace and security. In that respect, we 
support the strengthening and universalization of the 
relevant binding multilateral agreements. In that 
context, Peru organized a regional seminar on the 
implementation of Security Council resolution 1540 
(2004) in November 2006, in which most countries of 
the region participated. 
 The General Assembly is the forum in which the 
middle-income countries can efficiently contribute to 
identifying imaginative responses to conflicts and new 
threats. That is why we resolutely support reform that 
will strengthen the Assembly and ensure its ability to 
adapt to change and to the most urgent needs on the 
international agenda. In order to reinforce the 
Assembly’s legitimacy, we need to sharpen procedures 
and reduce its agenda. An equal priority is to carry out 
more effective action against violations of human 
rights. Security Council reform is needed urgently to 
make the Council a more efficient, transparent, 
legitimate and representative body with better working 
methods. On the Other hand, we also want to highlight 
the validity of the Economic and Social Council, an 
essential instrument for promoting greater 
effectiveness in the coordination of development 
strategies, as well as assistance in emergencies. 
 International reality presents many challenges to 
the universal system for promoting and protecting 
human rights. There is still a dichotomy between 
security and individual rights, with a backdrop marked 
by the poverty and the inequality in which the great 
majority around the world live and which affect human 
dignity. The new Human Rights Council and the 
system integrated into it ought to help in the response 
to these challenges.  
 Discussion over the last few days in this 
Organization shows that climate change is a world 
problem that requires a collective response from the 
international community in a framework of a 
multilateral and worldwide commitment. Through 
sustainable forest management, Peru has contributed to 
the global commitment by reducing emissions caused 
by deforestation. We have also made headway in 
implementing our National Strategy on Climate 
Change by strengthening national capacities to 
maximize human and financial resources. The size of 
the problem requires an agreement with goals for the 
emission of greenhouse gases more ambitious than 
those agreed in the first stage. Peru has great 
expectations for the next meeting in Bali, and we will 
work to ensure a common platform that will allow us to 
very soon begin negotiations to define the new 
international regime that we hope will be concluded in 
2009. 
 The official launching of the International Year of 
the Potato will take place at Headquarters on 19 
October. This celebration is especially important for 
my country because the potato has its origin in Peru, 
and it is the country with the greatest genetic diversity 
of this product. The cultivation of the potato was 
developed in ancient times by civilizations that gave 
rise to the Peru of today and is one of the great 
contributions to the world’s diet. Peru has proclaimed 
2008 as the National Year of the Potato and has 
developed a calendar of multisectoral activities for 
outreach and research that will be a positive 
contribution to the work programme of the Food and 
Agriculture Organization. 
 I shall conclude by noting that Peru participates 
actively to ensure and strengthen the United Nations 
Charter principles and objectives of peace, peaceful 
coexistence and development, especially in the 
Security Council and the Human Rights Council. In 
accordance with this commitment, Peru will continue 
to promote dialogue and coordination among peoples 
of the world. It has put forward its candidature for the 
Economic and Social Council and the Peacebuilding 
Commission, bodies within the United Nations system 
where we hope to achieve the support of all members 
of the Assembly in order to contribute to working 
towards a safer, more equitable world where 
development can reach the large majority of 
populations. 


===== Session 63 - 2008 =====
I should like to begin by greeting you, Sir, 
congratulating you on your election to the presidency 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-third session. We 
are certain that your experience will enable us to have 
fruitful and constructive exchanges on the urgent 
challenges currently facing humanity. Thus, we 
reaffirm our commitment to contributing to the 
achievement of positive results during this session. 
 Fighting poverty and creating opportunities to 
promote social inclusion are priorities of the 
Government of President Alan García Pérez, and we 
are therefore pleased that the General Assembly has 
rightly chosen the theme of poverty — a challenge 
requiring a global and comprehensive response — as 
the central focus of discussion for the present session.  
 Peru has been affected by the negative 
repercussions of the increase in food and fuel prices, 
which are felt most intensely by the poorest 
individuals. In my country, we are working responsibly 
to find appropriate responses that can sustainably meet 
the challenge of enhancing food security. At the same 
time, we are adopting urgent measures to assist those 
most affected by rising food prices. The direct 
relationship between poverty and rising food prices 
should lead us to develop new and more ambitious 
formulas for international cooperation that are 
commensurate with the magnitude of the problem and 
take into account all aspects of poverty in a 
comprehensive manner.  
 Against that backdrop, I wish to highlight a new 
threat to the possibilities of development: a grave 
international financial crisis whose scale is still 
unknown. At its roots lies an unfortunate and 
irresponsible combination of regulatory loopholes, real 
estate inflation, reckless mortgages and financial 
leverages without a sound basis in the real economy. 
This could lead the world into a crisis of confidence 
and undermine the considerable progress that 
developing regions have made in their fight against 
poverty. Given those phenomena, we await decisive 
responses and actions by the developed countries to 
support the financial system and avert the great risks of 
this crisis.  
 In the case of Peru, I can say that this turbulence 
will not cause us to abandon our ongoing policies of 
investing, creating productive jobs, increasing tax 
revenues and promoting growth. Peru has been very 
successfully implementing a programme of 
comprehensive, inclusive and decentralized 
development based on two pillars: an economic policy 
A/63/PV.13  
 
08-53122 6 
 
with the clear objectives of growth and job creation, 
taking advantage of the country’s multifaceted 
potential; and a social policy that honours the 
commitment to reduce poverty, increase social 
inclusion and promote equality of opportunity. 
 That approach has brought into our economy not 
only financial resources, but also advanced 
technologies and management capacities that improve 
and stimulate the competitiveness of our production, 
thus increasing and diversifying exportation. As a 
result of that approach, the creation of direct and 
indirect employment has increased in an unprecedented 
way in many areas of the country and thousands of 
small and medium entrepreneurs have been 
incorporated into the market in an economy that boosts 
initiative and creative capacity.  
 Based on those premises, Peru has made steady 
progress in recent years, with the growth rate reaching 
9.1 per cent in 2007 and forecast to reach over 9 per 
cent this year. There is, further, a major increase in the 
domestic component, which is a driving force in the 
economy. 
 But to those positive macroeconomic figures we 
should add the important results in the management of 
the major components of the social model, such as the 
expanding social, education and health services as well 
as basic assistance to the poorest. Through the social 
policy, the Peruvian Government has achieved, in only 
two years, a remarkable reduction of more than 5 per 
cent in poverty and almost 3 per cent in extreme 
poverty. Infant mortality has also fallen by 51.6 per 
cent and illiteracy levels have also been reduced by 
5.7 per cent. We have also established an objective of 
reducing chronic child malnutrition by 5 per cent by 
2011. We are seeking to enhance the management and 
increase the impact of the social expenditures of the 
State. 
 Those achievements ensure that in the case of 
Peru the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) will 
be met prior to the 2015 deadline in areas such as 
poverty reduction, nutrition, literacy, health and 
education, among others. We also see that the role of 
international cooperation was fundamental in our being 
able to bring to remote areas social, education and 
production projects that, in a sustainable manner, raise 
the standard of living of members of rural 
communities. The combination of the national effort 
for inclusion and international cooperation should be 
maintained in order to achieve, as soon as possible, the 
full involvement of the Peruvian social fabric in 
national development.  
 In recognition of all of those advances, of the 
economic stability of the country and of the prevailing 
legal security, three important international risk 
indicators have given Peru its investment grade. 
Consistent with this positive evolution of the economic 
perception of my country, foreign investment increased 
by more than 23 per cent in 2007 and is expected to 
further increase this year. 
 Our growth is also based on expanding the 
markets, which we have done through regional and 
bilateral free trade agreements entered into with the 
United States, Chile, Thailand, Canada and Singapore. 
We hope to conclude further agreements soon with 
South Korea and China. We are conducting trade 
negotiations with the European Union and the Andean 
countries, a process that we hope will be satisfactorily 
concluded in 2009. Furthermore, we are ready to 
engage in negotiations with as many countries as 
possible, to enable us to boost trade. 
 There is a broad consensus regarding the shared 
responsibility of countries of origin and receiving 
countries in dealing with the phenomenon of migration. 
Its causes have a global dimension, and so should its 
treatment. It is a tool of development, both in 
originating and receiving countries and in the migrant 
communities themselves. We should look at the central 
role of migration in terms of creating opportunities for 
generating wealth and progress, for diversity and for 
building more tolerant multicultural spaces. 
 The responsible and constructive handling of 
international migration should begin with the practical 
use of international instruments for the protection of 
migrants. Therefore, the United Nations, together with 
States, must redouble its efforts to implement measures 
that will make it possible to ensure respect for the 
human rights of migrants, migrant workers and their 
families.  
 For this reason, in Peru we have been promoting 
and continue to promote the handling of this matter 
both in the United Nations and in other forums with a 
view to establishing mechanisms for exchange of 
information and specialized knowledge, undertaking 
standing consultations and forging closer cooperation 
between the Global Forum for Migration and 
Development and the United Nations. We must make 
 A/63/PV.13
 
7 08-53122 
 
civil society aware of the benefits and contributions of 
migration and continue with dialogue and coordination 
in multilateral forums, without stopping the progress 
towards agreements. 
 The concern about poverty and economic growth 
requires an examination of the sustainability of 
development ideas and the most relevant 
environmental priorities. We need to deal with security 
and the rational use of water for agriculture and for 
personal use, deforestation control, soil degradation 
and environmental pollution, among others. We are 
working on these issues with the most advanced 
regulations, a product of our own experience. We have 
to approach these matters organically. In the case of 
Peru, we established the Ministry for the Environment 
a few months ago. We insist that national development 
programmes take account of the quality of life and the 
sustainability of land-use models and of natural 
resources.  
 Global warming requires us to work intensively 
with the entire international community to reduce 
emissions, which are the fundamental reason for the 
rise in global temperatures and their already visible 
consequences. Peru is witnessing a rapid retreat of its 
tropical glaciers, which is threatening the water-supply 
regime in the most populated and heavily agricultural 
areas. We want to confirm our conviction on the 
pressing importance of advancing from the platform 
adopted in Bali last year with a view to consolidating 
in Copenhagen in 2009 a comprehensive agreement for 
the reduction of polluting emissions, in order to avoid 
the worst natural-catastrophe scenarios for a not-so-
distant future. 
 The current international scene presents a very 
complicated structure, characterized by contradictory 
trends of globalization and fragmentation. Indeed, on 
the one hand, we have global integration of production 
processes, trade, financial flows and technological 
revolution, as well as the dissemination of values such 
as democracy and human rights. But, simultaneously, 
there is fragmentation because of increasing social 
inequality, poverty, exclusion, proliferation of civil 
wars, genocide, terrorism, transnational crime, 
degradation of the environment and the flouting of 
international law as a means for the peaceful settlement 
disputes.  
 Those contradictory trends between globalization 
and fragmentation jeopardize the governance of States, 
the governance of the international system and 
collective security itself. Peru, true to its traditional 
constructive approach, considers that the international 
order should be based on peace, cooperation, 
multilateralism and, of course, international law. Thus 
we are of the view that at the present time we need to 
reaffirm support for the primordial role played by the 
United Nations in dealing with the major subjects on 
the international agenda, specifically those connected 
with international peace and security, the observance of 
democratic order, sustainable development, the 
promotion and protection of human rights, and 
environmental protection. 
 That approach guided Peruvian participation on 
the Security Council and has led it to reaffirm its 
commitment to active participation in peacekeeping 
operations in the context of respect for the principles of 
the sovereignty of States and non-intervention in the 
domestic affairs of other countries. Currently, my 
country’s armed forces are in Haiti, the Sudan, the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, Liberia and Côte 
d’Ivoire. Peru has a contingent in the United Nations 
Stabilization Mission in Haiti and is coordinator of the 
Group of Friends of Haiti, which is responsible for 
helping the Security Council in monitoring this case. 
 Moreover, Peru is an active participant in 
numerous multilateral mechanisms. This year, we were 
honoured to host the fifth Summit between the 
European Union and Latin American and Caribbean 
heads of State and Government. Next November, we 
will once again be honoured when we host leaders 
from the economies of the Asia-Pacific Economic 
Cooperation Forum at their sixteenth summit.  
 As part of our involvement on the international 
stage, I should also like to point to our contribution to 
the establishment of the Latin American-Pacific Arc, 
which aims at harnessing synergies among 
participating countries in economic and commercial 
fields, especially as regards promoting investments in 
the areas of infrastructure and facilitating business, and 
in promoting cooperation to improve the 
competitiveness of our economies. All of that is geared 
towards ensuring a more pronounced and effective 
presence for our region in the Asia-Pacific region.  
 In conclusion, I would like to reiterate Peru’s 
commitment to continue to support initiatives aimed at 
promoting an environment conducive to economic and 
social development, the full validity of democracy, the 
A/63/PV.13  
 
08-53122 8 
 
strengthening of the rule of law and the promotion and 
protection of human rights throughout the world. That 
should take place against an international backdrop 
where conflicts are brought under control, security 
prevails and there is unequivocal adherence to the 
norms of international law and the Charter of the 
United Nations. Those are the central priority goals of 
our foreign policy and constitute the guidelines that 
will continue to orient Peru’s participation on the 
international stage, and especially in this body.

===== Session 64 - 2009 =====

I wish first of all to congratulate Mr. Ali Abdussalam 
Treki on his election as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. Knowing his 
broad experience in the United Nations and his 
dedication to dialogue and consensus, I assure him that 
Peru will constructively support his initiatives. 
 The global outlook is extremely complex and full 
of great contradictions. We face the deepest economic 
and financial international crisis that our generation 
has experienced and which once again proves that the 
borders in a global world are purely cartographic and 
that the symbol of our times remains interdependency. 
The economic and financial crisis has stymied world 
  
 
09-52598 6 
 
growth and, above all, exposed the weaknesses that 
caused the market to malfunction. As rarely in recent 
history, the international community has mobilized 
huge resources and political capital to avoid 
unprecedented economic collapse. A significant share 
of those resources must support the developing 
countries, which certainly did not cause the crisis but 
are the most affected by it. 
 It is regrettable that the convergence of wills and 
interests with regard to the crisis is, in turn, not 
apparent with equal resolve in the endeavour to achieve 
the Millennium Development Goals by 2015 and to 
firmly address the threats that endanger freedom, 
democracy and, ultimately, regional and global 
stability. 
 In that context, allow me to point out that one 
crucial problem we face is the huge sums spent on 
arms acquisitions. How can we explain to our peoples 
that, in the midst of one of the worst global economic 
recessions and with more than 1 billion people living in 
extreme poverty throughout the world, countries can 
commit over $1,464 billion to military expenditure in 
2008, and that, while economies contract, arms 
purchases grow in real terms every year? 
 Recently, the President of Peru, Mr. Alan García, 
in a communication to South America’s ministers for 
foreign affairs and of defence that is being circulated 
as a document of this General Assembly (A/64/367), 
seriously questioned that state of affairs in the region 
and asked why, in the five years since the 
establishment of the Union of South American Nations, 
our countries have allocated for military spending a 
total of $156 billion, but in addition have acquired 
approximately $23 billion more in new weapons, 
cannons, aircraft and ships. That figure could reach 
$38 billion this year. The President appealed for that 
absurdity to stop if conditions are created for a 
strengthening of security and confidence in the region. 
 To that end, on this occasion I affirm Peru’s 
proposal that a friendship and non-aggression pact be 
concluded to guarantee the commitments to 
strengthening a zone of peace in South America, and to 
achieve the gradual reduction of arms purchases and 
the future establishment of a peace and interposition 
force to avert any conflict in the region. The final 
objective would be to create a regional collective 
security system that complements and is upheld by the 
Charter of the United Nations, enabling all our 
countries to end the arms race in which South America, 
a region that is otherwise demonstrating great maturity 
and respect for international law in the handling of its 
disputes, seems to be engaged for no discernible 
reason. Our proposal will certainly require greater 
study and consideration in the light of experiences in 
other parts of the world. 
 A second transnational threat that is not receiving 
due attention is drug trafficking and its dangerous link 
to terrorism and violence in general, the consequences 
of which affect not only the security and rights of 
millions of people, but also the environment. We are 
paying an enormous price through our inaction 
concerning a problem that causes millions of deaths a 
year and tremendous material losses. 
 At the global level, the traffic in drugs brings in 
around $500 billion a year, equivalent to 8 per cent of 
global trade, while, according to data of the United 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, their use affects 
over 200 million people, in particular young people, 
throughout the world. 
 According to the 2008 report of the International 
Narcotics Control Board, it is clear that South 
America’s narcotics trafficking networks collaborate 
with one another in their illicit activities, especially 
money-laundering, and recruit specialists at the highest 
technical level. It is therefore a matter of urgency that 
combating narcotics trafficking once more be given top 
priority on the world agenda and in cooperation 
between developed countries, pursuant to the principle 
of shared responsibility. 
 We must respond jointly to halt the advance of 
narcotics trafficking and related criminal activities, 
such as trafficking in arms or people, the destruction of 
nature, corruption and terrorism. Legislation concerning 
illicit crops and their interdiction and eradication should 
be complemented by prevention and rehabilitation 
programmes aimed at comprehensive, alternative and 
sustainable development. To that end, the concerted 
efforts of all international actors are essential under the 
principles of cooperation and, above all, shared 
responsibility. 
 In Peru, drug traffickers are working with the 
remnants of terrorist groups. This situation 
exponentially increases the level of violence among 
both criminal groups, and if we do not solve the 
problem now, we may find ourselves in a situation of 
unprecedented consequences in the future. Illicit coca 
 
 
7 09-52598 
 
production is a process of utmost destructiveness to the 
environment. Three hectares of forest have to be 
destroyed to obtain one hectare of coca. This is causing 
irreparable damage in the Peruvian Amazon forest; the 
logging and burning of trees to clear land for illegal 
crops erodes the soil and has resulted in the 
deforestation of 2.5 million hectares of Amazon forest, 
a leading contribution to global warming. 
 For all these reasons, the Government of Peru has 
devoted special attention to the problem in terms of 
financial and human resources. But the results have 
often left us feeling that this is a solitary struggle with 
a problem for which the international community, and 
especially the countries that consume the bulk of 
narcotic drugs, do not have adequate or rapid solutions. 
Peru, which dedicates more than $600 million a year to 
fighting an illicit industry with a turnover of 
$22 billion, cannot fight the illicit production of drugs 
alone or hope for any long-term success without the 
firm, supportive cooperation of the international 
community and, particularly, of the consuming 
countries, based on the established principle of shared 
responsibility. 
 Real cooperation has diminished alarmingly since 
2002. The largest contributor to Peru reduced its 
contribution from $140 million to $128 million in 2003 
and to $116 million in 2004. This year, the total will be 
$70 million and next year, $57 million. Peru therefore 
considers it essential for the United Nations Office on 
Drugs and Crime to draft a report providing updated 
figures for the global resources that the international 
community allocates to combating the illegal narcotics 
trade, the donor sources and specific ongoing projects, 
as well as identifying key programmes to improve 
cooperation with the countries most affected by illegal 
drug production. Such precise, reliable and 
internationally comparable information would dispel 
many myths concerning the efforts and joint action that 
we should undertake without delay, and would be a 
practical starting point from which to better coordinate 
the efforts of contributing States, international 
organizations and financial institutions with those 
States most affected by illegal narcotics production and 
trafficking, in order to strengthen them in this fight. We 
hope that this task can be accomplished without delay, 
since, I repeat, international action in this area must not 
be postponed. 
 Another sensitive issue that has been the subject 
of special debate is that of climate change and the 
preservation of the environment in general. Peru is 
suffering dramatically from the effects of global 
warming, seen in the accelerated retreat of its tropical 
glaciers and its ensuing difficulties in adequately 
meeting the water needs of its population. Peru 
considers it essential to establish concrete goals for 
technological cooperation and transfer, as well as the 
creation of financial assistance funds for projects 
aimed at directly combating the effects of climate 
change in the countries most affected by it. Faced with 
the urgent need to confront the adverse effects of 
climate change, Peru supports the ongoing establishment 
of binding international commitments by the countries 
that created this problem, and hopes that at the 
fifteenth International Conference on Climate Change, 
to be held in Copenhagen in December, all States will 
be willing to adopt them. 
 In this regard, Peru reiterates its proposal that a 
financial mechanism be established towards the 
creation of a global fund to support measures aimed at 
mitigating and adapting to the effects of climate 
change in developing countries. This would involve a 
duty of $0.50 on every barrel of oil, inasmuch as the 
fuel bears a responsibility at every stage in its chain of 
production, from extraction through refining to its 
uses, direct and indirect. Peru also proposes that 
comprehensive programmes of adaptation to climate 
change be established. Such programmes, which could 
be financed by the Global Environment Facility or the 
World Bank, would identify a comprehensive approach 
to sectoral adaptation and emphasize strategies to 
reduce the occurrence of disasters and to protect the 
health and food security of affected populations, 
economic infrastructure and biodiversity. 
 Finally, we wish to raise an issue of particular 
interest to Peru and developing countries in general — 
the situation of migrants. Peru is an active promoter of 
the defence of the human rights of migrants and their 
families, and of the sharing of responsibility for 
addressing this phenomenon by their countries of 
origin and host countries. We endorse the principle that 
migration is a factor for development and has 
undeniably been so throughout human history. It has 
enriched the culture and social life of nations, and 
allowed us to come into contact with the contributions, 
discoveries and developments that have gradually 
shaped our modern society.  
 It is therefore essential that we be aware that 
what migrants contribute to their host countries today, 
  
 
09-52598 8 
 
and what they can contribute in the future, will be in 
large measure the backbone of those societies. That is 
why xenophobic and discriminatory pressures must be 
avoided, since they do nothing but delay the inevitable 
integration of the world and the human race. 
 In Latin America, we are living through a crucial 
time in the consolidation of democracy and the 
promotion of the social and political rights of our 
peoples. Peru therefore expresses its deep concern over 
the recent events in the sister country of Honduras, 
where the democratic system has been abruptly 
interrupted. The actions taken against Brazil’s embassy 
in Honduras should be repudiated and should cease 
immediately, pursuant to Honduras’s legal traditions as 
a country that respects its international obligations, 
particularly the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic 
Relations. 
 We call for a dialogue aimed at re-establishing 
democracy in Honduras. All Honduran political groups 
should take advantage of the return of President 
Manuel Zelaya to Tegucigalpa to establish a 
Government of unity and national reconciliation as 
outlined in the San José agreement, which, through 
entirely peaceful means, will allow the country to 
move forward with free, democratic and transparent 
elections that will guarantee the election of a 
Government that respects its Constitution and promotes 
national integration and solidarity for each and every 
Honduran citizen. 
 At a time when communications and technology 
bring us closer together than ever before, we must also 
understand that our problems and responsibilities 
should also bring us closer together and that challenges 
to one State are challenges to all. This Assembly 
therefore remains the most appropriate forum in which 
to discuss global and local challenges, which are now 
identical and of concern to us all, and should also — 
why not? — inspire us all with hope. 
 

===== Session 65 - 2010 =====
This 
is the second time in 25 years that I have come to this 
podium as head of State of Peru to address the 
representatives of all the countries of the world.  
 First of all, I would like to begin by 
congratulating the President of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-fifth session. Peru will constructively 
support his actions because we are sure that his 
experience will help us to achieve the results we hope 
for. 
 The first decade of this century has already been 
marked by the bloody attack of 11 September 2001 and 
again by the greatest economic crisis of the last 
80 years. That shows that we face enormous challenges 
that know no borders and require a joint, united 
response from the entire international community. 
Hence, in this most important forum on our globe, Peru 
reaffirms its resolve to cooperate with the United 
Nations and other States to tackle the challenges of 
climate change, terrorism, extreme poverty, the 
economic crisis, drug trafficking, weaponization and 
xenophobia, which is rearing its head again.  
 For Latin America, the first decade of the twenty-
first century has also meant confronting a choice 
between two different models of social and economic 
development.  
 The first is social democracy exercised through 
institutions. This is a democracy that recognizes 
market policy and that attracts global investment with 
clear rules, but which also has public policies for 
 
 
35 10-54827 
 
productive infrastructure. This is a democracy that 
does not just wait for a trickle-down effect to reach the 
poorest, but neither does it resort to the facile approach 
of subsidizing everything or raising wages in the public 
sector. This is a democracy that is open to the world 
and that acknowledges the immense power of 
cybernetics and communications and that, therefore, 
embraces a global market policy and aims to reach 
outward in the world through fairly negotiated free-
trade treaties that preserve the rights of workers and 
the environment. But this is also a democracy of 
education, teaching people that the path to 
development is one of effort and of individual and 
collective merit. 
 In the face of that model of social democracy, 
another path was proposed in America at dawn of the 
twenty-first century. That was a model of State 
ownership, advocated by countries with great natural 
resources, who trust their development to administer 
their resources and reject global investment. That 
model aims to control the political direction of the 
economy and rejects global reality. It suggests growing 
the domestic market, administering international trade 
by State authority, using subsidies and wages in the 
public sector instead of promoting productive 
infrastructure and assuring the peoples’ future. 
Moreover, instead of affirming democratic institutions, 
this alternative path affirms the politic will and 
personal agenda of leaders, which always culminate in 
an aggressive downward spiral, destroying freedom of 
the press and expression and taking people down the 
path of weaponization.  
 That second path does not seem to us a 
responsible one, because it avoids reality and offers no 
sustainable solution to social problems, nor does it 
create jobs that people need, because poverty cannot be 
diminished and true employment created without 
modern technology and integration into the global 
economy. Therefore Peru opts for a realistic and global 
approach.  
 After four years, I am proud to share the progress 
and successes that we have achieved in our social 
agenda and in the Millennium Development Goals that 
the United Nations has put forward. I can say that Peru 
is today a more stable, independent and egalitarian 
country than it was years ago; and all this means that 
we are better able to contribute to the defence of world 
freedom and democracy and to play a stronger role in 
fostering regional and international peace and stability. 
 Peru has been one of the proving grounds for 
realistic, global development, for modern, democratic 
development that follows a global markets policy for 
sustained development while pursuing social policies 
that ensure increasing stability and equity for our 
citizens. In the past five years we have achieved annual 
growth of 6.5 per cent, and even in the year of the great 
crisis we maintained employment growth and poverty 
reduction. All the forecasts for this year indicate 
economic growth of 8 per cent, which will enable us to 
reduce further the poverty that still exists in our 
country. 
 We have given priority to public spending on 
infrastructure projects in the areas of health, education, 
water and sanitation, electrification of thousands of 
towns and roads, in accordance with the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) established by the 
Assembly. 
 As a middle-income country, over the past four 
years Peru has achieved an annual rate of public 
investment of 6 per cent of output, double previous 
rates, and has invested $24 billion in more than 
130,000 specific projects aimed at raising the living 
standards of our poorest populations and improve their 
participation in the economy. However, besides public 
efforts, and thanks to the stability of our economy and 
to the rules we follow, the private sector has invested 
and reinvested $72 billion over four years, creating 
2.1 million new jobs. All international projections 
indicate that we will continue to grow at an annual rate 
of 6 per cent for the next six years, since we are 
already assured of $38 billion in investments to be 
made, in addition to investments in the agricultural and 
manufacturing sectors. 
 Peru has succeeded in reducing its poverty rate 
from 48 to 34 per cent of the population, and we shall 
reach our goal of lowering it to 30 per cent next year. 
We feel sure that when Peru celebrates the bicentenary 
of its independence, in 2021, the rate will have fallen 
to 10 per cent. 
 As I remarked yesterday at the High-level 
Plenary Meeting on the Millennium Development 
Goals (see ), Peru has achieved many of the 
MDGs ahead of schedule and will continue to work to 
meet all the goals of poverty reduction, improved 
nutrition, literacy, health and education, among others, 
which are the true objectives that every good 
Government must aim for. Suffice it to say that our 
  
 
10-54827 36 
 
infant mortality rate has already been cut to half of 
what it was at the beginning of the MDG period, and 
by a third compared with five years ago. 
 All this has been achieved thanks to a stable 
economic policy and an increase in basic services and 
employment. Moreover, our currency reserves have 
tripled in the last five years and now stand at 
$42 billion. Peru’s financial system is one of the most 
sound in the world, without debt or credit exposure that 
might put it at risk. But the most important thing is that 
the political discourse of politicians that constitutes an 
essential element in driving and guiding our countries 
has consistently advocated democracy and investment, 
and has been fully in line with a broad path of 
expanded trade and global investment. I believe that it 
is this alignment that has granted us the results that we 
can illustrate today. 
 As opposed to this, some countries in the 
Americas which chose the second route — that of State 
ownership, political management of the economy, 
inward-looking growth and State administration of 
trade or confrontation rather than productive 
cooperation with other countries of the world — cannot 
show similar results. Thus, we can now say that Peru 
has laboured on the progressive path of history in 
moving towards the purposes of the United Nations. 
Moreover, the crisis has shown us that the free market 
does not mean an absent State, and that we who govern 
must not wait for wealth to expand without knowing 
when and how to steer it in order to benefit those who 
need it most. 
 Besides doubling our exports over four years and 
tripling our reserves, we have also signed trade 
agreements with most of the world’s countries — the 
United States, China, the European Union, Canada, 
Korea and many others — providing us with the 
necessary base to maintain and drive growth and 
improve our competitiveness, thus providing jobs for 
the people. In this way Peru will be greater and will be 
able to better contribute to international cooperation — 
and cooperation, along with maintaining peace, is the 
great purpose of our Organization. 
 We are aware, however, that we live in a 
multipolar and interdependent system, and that none of 
Peru’s achievements will be sustainable in the long 
term unless we unite our efforts to combat common 
threats. Peace, security and cooperation are inseparable 
parts of globalization, and we must promote them 
through coordinated strategies. 
 Twenty-five years ago I spoke from this rostrum 
for the first time, and I see that, 20 years after the end 
of the cold war, we have still not built the stability that 
is a new multilateralism, based on the power of 
international law. We are still in a situation of 
uncertainty, where instability encroaches on peace and 
new threats arise, testing the agility, creativity and 
political determination of this Organization and the 
countries it comprises. 
 Peru believes that in this globalized world, 
security is the result of the interaction of internal and 
external factors. We are thus deeply concerned about 
the proliferation of nuclear arms, which must be halted 
at all costs. There is also, however, the issue of 
conventional weapons, since in practice it is they that 
produce the death and destruction suffered in many 
parts of the world. Moreover, arms and the arms trade 
limit social development, foster poverty and inequality 
and feed the threat of instability. Peru has therefore 
proposed to all countries of South America, the 
adoption of a protocol on peace, security and 
cooperation to bring about permanent peace and 
reduced arms expenditures. 
 In our view — and this has been said a thousand 
times here — it is not possible that, since the 
establishment of the integrated, reliable Union of South 
American Nations, its 10 member countries have 
invested $25 billion in new weapons and spent another 
$150 billion on maintaining military operating 
expenditures. This is shameful, because with that sum, 
more than 50 million people in South America could 
have ceased to live in poverty. Over the next five years, 
if we do not halt this absurd arms race, we will have 
spent another $35 billion on new weapons and $200 
billion on regular military expenditure, thus fueling an 
irrational race which will always find justification to 
continue. 
 But the absurdity we see in South America is 
even more serious on the global scale. It is not possible 
for our countries to continue to allocate so much 
money to the buying of weapons when there are so 
many poor people in the world. It is as though the cold 
war had not ended and was continuing to the benefit of 
arms traders. 
 We say once again, as we did in the Union of 
South American Nations and the Organization of 
 
 
37 10-54827 
 
American States, and as we say in all international 
forums in which we participate, let us allocate less to 
the buying of weapons and more to combating poverty. 
Let us raise the flag of the martyr of pacifism Jean 
Jaurès or our great friend, the Olof Palme of Sweden.  
 Let us demand that multilateral financial 
institutions include anti-armament clauses in their 
contracts and conditions, just as they do environmental 
provisions. Why should they lend belonging to all the 
citizens of the world to countries that use them in a 
race to death? It is a serious matter to produce and 
consume harmful drugs, but it is also a serious matter 
for the richest countries of the world to produce 
weapons for poor countries to buy, curbing their 
development and road towards justice. We appeal to 
the leaders of the world: stop buying and producing 
arms; feed the disadvantaged; develop land; and create 
employment. 
 Real strength, real leadership of nations and 
peoples is found in intelligence and the ability to help 
the least developed, not in the capacity for arms 
production or its nuclear power. We know it is difficult 
to make this appeal over and over again, but we shall 
keep doing it because one day clarity and acceptance of 
these ideas will prevail among world opinion and 
among the world’s peoples. 
 For all those reasons, we call for this world forum 
to act. It is important for us also to think of regional 
integration, because we are not a cluster of asteroids. 
But we believe in a modern, different integration. In 
this world of computers, satellite communication, trade 
without borders and human rights without national 
restrictions, this new integration does not mean just 
joining those who are already geographically joined, 
but also using the tools of technology to ensure that the 
furthest off are also integrated. This is the new space of 
freedom that science and technology are creating for 
human beings and nations. 
 We must get beyond the primitive idea that there 
is not enough to go around and realize that when the 
wealth of information is distributed, those who 
distribute it are no poorer for having done so. Rather, 
they have lost nothing by sharing with others. 
Similarly, integration is a form of wealth which sooner 
or later will reach all united peoples. 
 Here, I can provide a fine example of the path 
followed by Ecuador and Peru after two centuries of 
confrontation, hatred and war. Thanks to the 
determination and political will of the Government of 
Ecuador headed by President Rafeal Correa, and its 
agreement with the Peruvian Government, we have 
taken a quantum leap forward in fraternity, integration 
and development. 
 Barely 15 years ago, we were divided by war, but 
now we have a permanent joint binational Cabinet 
thanks to which we have built bridges and thousands of 
kilometres of roads, improved our agricultural systems 
and integrated our social security systems for workers 
in our two countries. We have binational consulates 
and embassies, representing both our countries in many 
parts of the world. Ours is an example we would like to 
show to the United Nations as proof of our genuine and 
active devotion to integration; we believe in integration 
and in fraternity among peoples. 
 The need for greater integration was tested when 
the worst international crisis of the past 80 years broke 
out. This financial crisis, which began in developing 
countries, has had consequences that we still cannot 
predict. Our understanding of this crisis is the 
following: the beginning of globalization and the 
increase in world trade were possible only with the 
new information and communications technologies 
which, at the infrastructure level, have developed new 
forms of production and policy. 
 Information is now the fundamental fuel driving 
the economy and political change. It is gradually 
displacing fossil fuels as the essential form of energy. 
So we see the structure of world trade becoming 
increasingly dematerialized, but information and 
communication, by means of e-money and computers, 
are able to work at such speeds that they have 
outstripped the human capacity of our banks, our 
financial wizards and existing institutions to manage 
the new economy. 
 This is the dawn of a new, much swifter, 
digitalized economy in crisis. But if this speed brings 
crisis and chaos, the same speed of technology will 
also bring solutions to problems engendered by the 
crisis. We must trust in human beings and their creative 
abilities. Never in human history have we had so many 
means of payment and so much capacity to consume; 
never have we had so much technological creation and 
transformation; never have we had such an interactive 
digital market that allows people, even the poorest, 
from their homes to instantly stimulate production in 
other parts of the world. 
  
 
10-54827 38 
 
 This enables us to look with human optimism to 
the future of the world and to believe that after a slight 
rise in inflation in 2012, which will come about 
because of the expansion of the means of payment to 
overcome the crisis, world trade will accelerate and 
help us emerge from the present circumstances. 
 However, we must be prepared for this greater 
speed brought about by digitalization and by creativity. 
We must strengthen our peoples’ and communities’ 
ability to integrate, strengthen exchanges among our 
countries through transportation, communications and 
electronic interconnection, strengthen education and 
eradicate weaponization. 
 Our message is one of optimism about the world 
situation. Despite ourselves, we are building a better 
world, without borders, without tyranny, with more 
freedom. We must act, employing policies which are 
successful against the crisis. We must employ 
democracy, sound institutions and realism, using 
capital and international technology and mobilizing 
investment in small and micro businesses. 
 Of course, our response to the crisis must always 
be a collective one. The Group of 20 (G-20) is now the 
prime forum of international financial cooperation and 
coordination, and we must support its role to support 
its role in reforming the system. We need a greater 
regulation given the growing speed with which 
financial and economic instruments can be 
manipulated. Peru commends the efforts that have been 
made, but proposes that the work of the G-20 gain in 
legitimacy by establishing fluid lines of 
communication with the International Monetary Fund 
and the World Bank, and by involving other countries 
in this work. 
 But just as in the financial crisis, all nations must 
coordinate our efforts to properly confront terrorism, 
drugs, the illicit arms trade, money laundering, 
trafficking of persons, xenophobia and climate change.  
 With respect to this last theme, I must note that 
Peru is vulnerable to the environment and is at very 
serious risk due to climate change. But at the same 
time, my country is strategically placed to mitigate and 
adapt to the effects of global climate change because it 
ranks fourth in terms of the quantities of tropical 
forests.  
 We want to change our discourse. We have not 
come with hand extended to demand cooperation from 
the rich of the world but to demand that they fulfil their 
commitments in their own countries. We have come to 
say that we will do the same in our own countries.  
 In Peru, our forest sequesters 21 billion tons of 
carbon per year. We have 84 biospheres and are one of 
17 megadiverse countries on the planet.  
 I offer — if necessary, with hand extended to the 
insensitive world of the rich countries — our budgetary 
and humane commitment to protect, unscathed, Peru’s 
54 million hectares of forest, thus controlling climate 
change at the global level. As a tropical glacier country 
in danger, we appeal to the world to implement specific 
goals for cooperation and technology transfer and to 
provide resources to develop programmes to combat 
the effects of climate change.  
 We want an agreement that is comprehensive, 
binding, fast and effective, and I reiterate to the 
Assembly my country’s desire to strengthen joint 
action through development of a clean and sustainable 
growth economy with low carbon emissions. With that 
intention we will voluntarily reduce to zero the 
deforestation of the primordial natural forests and will 
alter our present energy matrix so that by 2021 
renewable non-conventional energy, hydropower and 
biofuels will account for at least 40 per cent of the 
energy consumed in the country. And we will make 
annual reports to the Assembly. 
 However, we must not forget that much of the 
pollution is still produced by poverty. Hundreds of 
millions of households in the world continue to use 
wood-burning stoves, thus driving deforestation and at 
the same time polluting the environment and causing 
serious bronchiopulmonary and nutritional problems 
among children. We propose to reduce the number of 
wood-burning stoves in Peru by 20 per cent by 2021 
and to replace them with better stoves, and we want 
that issue to become part of the Millennium Goals. 
 A final point is something of particular interest to 
Peru — the situation of migrants. The globalization of 
capital, services and products cannot be accepted 
without also accepting the free movement of people or 
facilitating their mobility. Peru actively promotes the 
defense of the human rights of migrants and their 
families, because it is a country built by European 
migrants, as is the United States and many other rich 
countries today — which they forget when they expel 
today’s migrants and deport them by plane.  
 
 
39 10-54827 
 
 Peru believes that migration is a development 
tool that has enriched and continues to enrich universal 
culture and the social life of countries. That is why we 
condemn any type of regulation, whether in Arizona or 
elsewhere, or any kind of xenophobic or discriminatory 
expressions. It is a paradox that the countries governed 
by the children of migrants are today those that most 
vigorously deport migrants, unwittingly creating a new 
form of domestic violence that could have very serious 
consequences in the short term. 
 We reiterate that the best way to avoid 
unregulated migration is by means of unhampered free 
trade and investment from the most developed 
countries that helps to generate employment and 
improve the quality of life of people in the developing 
countries.  
 Peru has an ongoing commitment with the United 
Nations, a commitment with humankind without races, 
colours or distinctions. We would like, as we proposed 
a few years ago, to strengthen the entire system in 
order to consolidate ourselves as a modern, strong and 
free organization, free of the contradictions or delays 
of the past, one that can ensure peace with less 
bureaucracy and with greater resolve and stronger 
political fortitude.  
 Let there be peace and well-being for all peoples 
of the Earth; let there be bread with freedom for all 
human beings. 

===== Session 66 - 2011 =====
I 
would first like to congratulate the President on his 
election to the presidency of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-sixth session, and to assure him of Peru’s firm 
support in his task. 
 I would also like to say how pleased I am to be 
speaking to the world on behalf of the people of Peru 
from this rostrum that represents multilateralism, 
peace, solidarity and cooperation, the principles that 
inspired the birth of this Organization and that Peru 
fully supports. 
 The Government I head began its administration 
only a few weeks ago. Through the ballot box, the 
people of Peru entrusted us with the task of making a 
great transformation, one that we have sought for a 
good part of our history. We intend to make that 
commitment a reality, out of a sense of responsibility 
and honour. Our mythical and vibrant nation, possessed 
of an extraordinary past and a vigorous present, 
demands that we put an end to centuries of poverty and 
 
 
13 11-50871 
 
exclusion. The great transformation is a process of 
social inclusion, that is to say, of converting the 
economic growth that Peruvians have been 
experiencing for the last 10 years into development; in 
other words, we must turn money into quality of life. 
 Our ideal of the great transformation is as 
impossible to relinquish as is our democratic faith. My 
Government proposes to deepen our democracy, so that 
we can respond to the problems and needs of all, not 
just a minority. In other words, we will democratize 
democracy. Democracy is the basis of a people’s self-
determination, and the State must be prepared to 
faithfully carry out the people’s will. That is the 
foundation of a sovereign democracy. In order to fulfil 
that commitment, the State must be the institution 
responsible for shaping the path to transformation 
through public policies in both the political and 
economic spheres. The State must act in the interests of 
the people. 
 The United Nations is the greatest guarantee we 
have for preserving peace, and it is made up of our 
States. Today, however, we know that there are 
companies that have as much power as or greater 
power than many States, and that can react rapidly via 
the networks of the Internet and the stock market to put 
States themselves in the dock of the accused. That 
situation must be taken into account in order to 
safeguard State policies concerning issues such as the 
preservation of the environment, respect for peoples’ 
self-determination and the rights of indigenous 
communities and social minorities, among others. 
 We cannot consider the possibility of 
transformation outside the rule of law and its values. 
This is not a question of copying others’ models. We 
will govern by consensus, both at home and abroad, 
protecting all our freedoms with tolerance and, above 
all, by listening to our citizens, without regard to class, 
race or gender. When I took office I quoted Nelson 
Mandela, who said that there is no democracy with 
poverty, and no democracy with social inequality. Our 
Government seeks a State that can regain the ability to 
promulgate policies that respond to the needs and 
aspirations of all its citizens. It is in that spirit that we 
are renewing our commitment to the Millennium 
Development Goals. 
 Latin America is the most unequal region in the 
world. Its political class cannot say that the dream of 
those who established our independence and founded 
the republics of today, has come true. In most cases, 
values such as liberty, equality and fraternity were the 
banners of our founders. However, extreme 
interpretations of those values have led to a world of 
great confrontations, without really advancing liberty 
or equality. Let us now strengthen fraternity as a path 
to lasting peace. In that regard, I would like, from this 
rostrum, to take the opportunity to recognize the 
Palestinian State and its right to live in peace and 
harmony alongside other countries of the United 
Nations. 
 Today the integration of a geographically 
fragmented and scattered nation is possible, thanks to 
advances in communications and physical 
infrastructure. Social inclusion also demands quality 
public services and equality of opportunity. Citizens 
need access to health, education, housing, decent jobs 
and social security. We are talking about full 
integration within Peruvian society. We are vigorously 
promoting exchanges between our communities, and 
we acknowledge and seek to re-evaluate our diversity. 
 We want a State that is responsive to the needs of 
its citizens and communities. That is its primary role. 
The exploitation of non-renewable sovereign resources, 
which Peru is rich in, should serve the country’s 
development. Investment projects should respect both 
the human and the natural environments in which they 
take place. This is already being made clear to 
investors through a negotiation process that my 
Government has undertaken within the framework of 
the rule of law. Thanks to those negotiations, the State 
and our communities will have greater resources 
available for social investment projects. That will 
enable us to promote social cohesion and democratic 
stability, and, at the same time, the more favourable 
investment environment that the country needs. One of 
the first measures we took was to enact a law on prior 
consultation, through which we can respond to the 
demands of our indigenous communities, involving 
them in decisions that concern them. In that way we 
are affirming that every Peruvian is a first-class citizen, 
and we are fulfilling a commitment made by Peru in 
compliance with Convention 169 of the International 
Labour Organization concerning indigenous and tribal 
peoples. 
 Drug trafficking is one of the world’s most 
serious issues. It is essential that we recognize the fact 
that this major problem has not been overcome; worse, 
its power and influence are growing every day. 
  
 
11-50871 14 
 
Acknowledging this reality is an important step, which 
will enable us to re-establish an integrated policy, 
working together with stakeholders and giving equal 
importance to both controlling supply and reducing 
demand. For Peru, these principles also involve States’ 
duty to act decisively and cooperatively in order to 
combat every link in that criminal chain. Coca 
production is a source of income for tens of thousands 
of people who cannot always rely on a viable 
alternative for survival. My Government is working to 
achieve a situation in which anti-drug policies lead to 
the eradication of illegal coca crops, and is also 
considering the need to include peasant farmers in 
alternative development programmes. Unless we do, 
eradication will simply be insufficient to achieve our 
objectives. We must act more vigorously in combating 
the transnational criminal organizations that are the 
main beneficiaries of this illegal trade. Those 
organizations employ thousands of people and exploit 
the poverty and vulnerabilities of States in areas where 
access is difficult. 
 At the same time, we require greater financial 
knowledge in order to detect money-laundering 
activities and more effective controls over supplies and 
precursors. In the context of security, we must control 
the supply of weapons that the cartels and criminal 
gangs use daily against citizens. 
 In the second quarter of next year, we will 
convene in Lima a meeting of ministers for foreign 
affairs, and heads of organizations responsible for 
combating drugs in order to address these issues and 
define specific measures. My Government will spare 
no effort in combating the drug trade and organized 
crime.  
 Peru is a multicultural country that is in the 
process of recognizing the wealth of its own diversity. 
For example, our country today is undergoing a 
gastronomical revolution that has revealed that 
diversity contributes to social inclusion and sustainable 
development. Peruvian cooking is an area in which all 
Peruvians — from the peasant and the cook to the 
fisherman and the tradesman — can participate 
together. It is based on a millennial dialogue among 
many cultures — indigenous, African, European, Arab 
and Asian — that is represented today in our cuisine. 
For that reason, we have called on UNESCO to 
recognize Peruvian cooking as a representative element 
of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.  
 Technological and scientific progress has grown 
exponentially over the past 50 years. Currently, 
however, there has been a parallel growth of global 
exclusion. This is seen not only in the lack of access to 
technology, but also in the mass migrations of people 
seeking better opportunities abroad. Those people, who 
are known as illegals, are in fact a bridge for 
integration. However, in many cases the needs that 
motivate them to move abroad lead to violations of 
their human rights. I take this opportunity to call for 
fairer and more dignified treatment for peoples who 
contribute through their work to the economies of their 
countries of origin and of residence. Their 
marginalization this will push them into informal 
economies run by mafias and criminal networks.  
 With respect to social inclusion, my Government 
is prioritizing the needs of the most fragile and 
vulnerable, such as children and the elderly. However, 
we are also concerned with the need to protect the 
rights of women, who have historically been victims of 
discrimination. In this regard, I note the positive 
decision to create UN-Women. We call on the 
international community to work together to promote 
gender equality and the empowerment of women. We 
also reiterate our commitment to the Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action adopted at the 
World Conference against Racism, Racial 
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, 
whose tenth anniversary we celebrate today. 
 The effects of climate change and greenhouse gas 
emissions are being felt in the most vulnerable social 
sectors yet affect us all, rich and poor alike. In the 
context of the global attempt to preserve the planet, we 
must all be committed. In Peru, we are working to 
promote the use of clean energy through reforestation, 
environmental education and recognition of the right of 
participation and access of communities that possess 
traditional knowledge. That will require a large amount 
of resources and technology that are more abundant in 
the northern hemisphere. Therefore, we reaffirm the 
principle of shared but differentiated responsibility 
between developed countries and developing countries. 
International cooperation must enhance the level of 
financial and technical assistance to mitigate the 
effects of climate change. 
 Industrialized countries must assume and fulfil 
the commitment to significantly reduce their carbon 
emissions. On 28 July in Lima, the Heads of States of 
the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR) 
 
 
15 11-50871 
 
called attention to the threats posed to our economies 
by situations that originated in the United States, 
Europe and Asia, linked to the high level of public debt 
and unemployment and the slow recovery of credit 
markets and investment. Of course, is the situation is 
also due to military ambitions that have diverted vast 
amounts of money that could have been used to prevent 
these crises.  
 Latin American countries are learning how to 
overcome our chronic vulnerability in the face of these 
crises. We have decided to work together, coordinating 
our policies to enhance the economic underpinnings of 
our countries and the monitoring of our financial 
systems. We have established the South American 
Council of Economy and Finance, reflecting our 
capacity to encourage dialogue and establish consensus 
to the benefit of all.  
 Latin America will not be spared the problems 
that have affected the North. We are making 
preparations. It is not enough to be linked to one 
another; we must be united. The twenty-first century 
may well be the moment for this part of the continent 
and its great market of more than 700 million people. 
Our commitment to integration, peace and regional 
progress is not rhetorical. For the Peruvian 
Government, integration with our neighbouring 
countries is a priority instrument for promoting 
security and development for all throughout South 
America and Latin America. This is in line with of the 
affirmation that the path to peace and reconciliation 
requires an end to the blockade on Cuba.  
 As Víctor Andrés Belaúnde said on assuming the 
presidency of the General Assembly in 1959: 
 “In centuries gone by, the arrogant will to power 
prevailed. Today mankind not only yearns to, but 
must, live in a world ruled by justice.” (A/PV.795, 
para. 33) 
 The interdependence of our societies is a fact. It 
is not necessary to create further divisions. When 
making decisions, we must learn to talk to one another 
and to involve the viewpoints of the many actors of the 
international system. Peru reasserts its full support for 
enlarging the Security Council to make it more 
representative and enhance its legitimacy. 
 It is urgent to also advance reform of the 
Economic and Social Council in order to make it a 
genuine, fundamental forum for the development of all 
peoples of the world. 
 The priority we give to regional integration in no 
way implies that ours is closed regionalism. That 
would be anachronistic in a globalized world. Although 
our foreign policy is based on brotherhood in South 
America and Latin America, we will not neglect our 
political, trade and cooperation relations with other 
regions of the globe. On the contrary, our regionalism 
will provide a platform to bring us closer, in a more 
articulated and proactive way, with other regions of the 
world. 
 Our participation in multilateral forums will 
increase in coherence. Global political stability 
requires intergovernmental organizations and strong 
regional groups that are capable of maintaining that 
multipolar order that is emerging in our world.

===== Session 67 - 2012 =====
﻿At the outset, on behalf of President Ollanta
Humala Tasso and the Government and people of Peru,
I wish to congratulate the President of the General
Assembly on his election to lead this session, during
which we are very honoured to support him as one of
the Vice-Presidents. I would also like to congratulate
him on his initiative to make the pacific settlement of
disputes the central topic of our debate. The pacific
settlement of disputes is the fundamental way to
eradicate the scourge of war, which, in turn, is the
main objective of the Organization and its Charter. The
commitment not to resort to the threat or use of force
is the cornerstone of international peace and security.
Peru reaffi rms its ongoing and resolute commitment
to the principles that inspired the birth of the United Nations: multilateralism, the pursuit of international
peace and security, solidarity and cooperation. In
that context, Peru solemnly affirms its continuing
commitment to the pacific settlement of disputes.
In that task, the International Court of Justice, as
the main judicial organ of the United Nations system,
plays a fundamental and, fortunately, increasing role,
in particular in Latin America. Peru reaffirms its full
respect for the work of the Court and calls on States to
turn to it to resolve their differences and to respect and
comply with its decisions, pursuant to Chapter XIV of
the United Nations Charter.
The 123 disputes that had been submitted to the
Court as at December 2011 are proof of the fact that
the international community is actively committed to
the pacific settlement of disputes, to diplomacy and
not to war. Recourse to the Court, far from being an
unfriendly act, is an eloquent testimony to our desire
for peace.
We reiterate our faith in multilateralism and
deplore the existence of situations to which, to date, our
Organization has not been able to find solutions. The
latest and most painful one of these, due to the high toll
it is taking in human lives, is the crisis in Syria. Peru
condemns the use of force and violence in that country,
and calls once again on all parties to the conflict to
immediately cease hostilities and to initiate a genuine
process of dialogue and peacemaking, in the framework
of respect for the independence and sovereignty of that
country and for the fundamental rights and freedoms
of its citizens.
We support the efforts undertaken by the Secretary-
General and the Arab League to find a negotiated and
peaceful solution to the conflict. We would encourage
the mission of the Joint Special Representative, Lakhdar
Brahimi, to continue its efforts.
However, that is not the only outstanding issue. Peru
deems regrettable the fact that in more than 60 years
our Organization has not been able to find a solution
to the legitimate demand of the Palestinian people to
establish an independent State and to live in peace
within secure and internationally recognized borders.
Peru recognizes the Palestinian State, has established
diplomatic relations with it and, based on Peru’s
historical position since 1947 and on international law,
supports its admission as a full Member of the United
Nations, without detriment to Israel’s right to its own
security. Peru also condemns once again the unfair,
illegitimate and illegal economic, financial and
commercial blockade imposed against Cuba, to which
the Organization has been unable to put an end despite
the countless condemnations from the Assembly.
We also regret that it has not yet been possible
to find a solution to the nearly 200-year-old dispute
between Argentina and the United Kingdom regarding
the Malvinas Islands. We call upon the parties once
again to initiate a dialogue leading to a negotiated
solution.
To overcome these and other shortcomings and
deficiencies of the current international order, it is
urgent to adopt measures within our own Organization,
the most urgent one probably being a reform of the
Security Council aimed at making it a more efficient,
transparent, democratic and representative forum. The
United Nations must reflect the realities of the twenty-
first century and update the current architecture, which
remains best suited to the post-war world of 1945. The
current scenario requires that developing countries take
greater responsibility for preserving peace and security.
We deplore the limited progress made in negotiations on
this issue. We consider that the time is ripe to relaunch
the reform process, and we call upon Member States
to spare no effort in bringing this process to a speedy
conclusion.
As a concrete sign of Peru’s contribution to
strengthening the rule of law, it was my pleasure to
deposit yesterday the instruments of ratification of
the Convention for the Protection of All Persons from
Enforced Disappearance and the Convention on Cluster
Munitions, as well as the amendments to the Montreal
Protocol regarding ozone-depleting substances. We call
on all countries to accede to these instruments, which
are aimed at protecting the environment, ensuring
respect for human rights and fighting against all
forms of impunity. It is a moral duty to ensure that the
perpetrators of serious crimes against humanity are
duly tried and punished.
The rule of law also requires more inclusive
societies. Civil, political and social citizenship must
encompass everyone equally. Accordingly, Peru has
incorporated into its national legislation the provisions
of Convention 169 of the International Labour
Organization. Since Peru is the first country to adopt
these measures, its indigenous peoples will be able to
fully exercise their rights and ensure that all investors have obtained the requisite social licence, within the
framework of State powers.
In spite of all of those efforts, new and diverse
threats to the rule of law have emerged. Transnational
organized crime, funded mainly by drug trafficking,
today constitutes the main threat to democratic societies.
The magnitude of this problem requires, more than ever
before, combined efforts with an integrated vision of
shared responsibility at the global level.
It is for that reason that this past June Peru hosted
the International Conference of Ministers of Foreign
Affairs and Heads of Specialized National Agencies
against the World Drug Problem, in an attempt to resume
a political dialogue that had been interrupted for nearly
20 years. That valuable opportunity proved to us that
amid our diversity there are many more convergences
than discrepancies, and that the will exists to intensify
cooperation in this area.
We are confident that this first step will be further
complemented by new initiatives that will guarantee
greater exchange of information, a better allocation
of resources, and better results in reducing the supply
and demand of narcotic drugs as well as in the field of
alternative development, a topic that will be addressed
next November at an international conference to be
hosted by Peru.
That Peruvian initiative on the fight against
drugs is not the only ref lection of our commitment
to multilateralism and integration. Since June, Peru
has held the presidency pro tempore of the Union of
South American Nations (UNASUR). We want to see
democracy consolidated throughout South America.
Many lives have been lost during the long journey
towards consolidating democracy in our region. For that
reason, we will not be deterred by any circumstance
that may threaten that undertaking.
In our capacity as President Pro Tempore of
UNASUR, we reiterate that democracy will remain an
essential requirement for integration and cooperation
in South America. We also hope that South America
will become a zone of peace, without exclusions. It
is already a nuclear-weapon-free zone, and we will
work tirelessly so that it can soon be a zone free of
anti-personnel mines. The money currently spent on
arms must be redirected towards development and
overcoming poverty and inequality.
Peru is peace-loving country and a staunch defender
of disarmament. At the international level, we are party to the main disarmament and non-proliferation
treaties. Furthermore, Peru hosts the headquarters
of the Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and
Development in Latin America and the Caribbean.
We promote confidence-building measures with
neighbouring countries, especially measures aimed at
conventional disarmament to favour the development
of our peoples. In that context, we cannot but welcome
with enthusiasm and high expectations the efforts made
by the Government of President Santos Calderón of
Colombia to open the path of dialogue in order to end
long years of violence, as justly claimed by the people
of Colombia. Peru expresses its best wishes for the
success of that initiative.
From the South American perspective, we also
aspire to build bridges with all the regions of the world.
In such a spirit, Peru will in a few days welcome heads
of State and Government of South American and Arab
countries to the third Summit of South American and
Arab Countries. The Summit has become an important
instrument in bringing the two regions closer together
and, through it, its member countries have opened a
channel for dialogue and political understanding at
the highest level. That will afford us the opportunity
to develop common interests in areas such as trade,
investment and culture, all for the benefit of our peoples.
Thanks to appropriate macroeconomic policies,
Peru has continued to grow, reaching a growth rate in
2011 of 6.92 per cent and a 5.7 per cent average rate
over the past 10 years. Despite those good results, wide
sectors of the population do not fully participate in the
benefits of economic growth. Hence, it is time to ensure
growth with social inclusion, as President Ollanta
Humala Tasso has pointed out since the beginning of
his Administration. The new vision that Peru promotes
is oriented towards further economic growth and
democratic stability as it expands and maximizes
social well-being and harmonizes productive activities
with environmental preservation. In Peru’s view,
starting with the Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable
Development, the establishment of the post-2015
development agenda must achieve a convergence of the
processes of the Millennium Development Goals with
the processes of the sustainable development goals.
Peru’s commitment to the United Nations is
long-standing and deep. Allow me to conclude by
honouring here to three prominent Peruvian diplomats
who have held the highest responsibilities within the
Organization — Ambassador Javier Pérez de Cuellar, Secretary-General from 1982 to 1991; Ambassador
Victor Andrés Belaúnde, President of the General
Assembly at its fourteenth session, from 1959 to 1960;
and Ambassador José Luis Bustamante y Rivero,
President of the International Court of Justice from
1967 to 1969. The recognition and responsibilities
that those individuals received from the international
community show that Peru has always been committed
to peace and to the observance of international law. I
am pleased to see the Permanent Representative of Peru
presiding over the debate this evening.
As a co-founder of some of the main regional
forums, such as the Andean Community, the Union
of South American Nations and the Community of
Latin American and Caribbean States, Peru has always
been a standard-bearer for integration and for positive,
respectful relations with all countries of the world
and, in particular, with the countries of our region and
neighbouring countries. As a basis of that policy, Peru
has always trusted — and will continue to place its
trust — in the strength and primacy of international
law and in the peaceful settlement of disputes. It is
with that conviction that the Government of President
Ollanta Humala Tasso reiterates its staunch adherence
to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.

===== Session 68 - 2013 =====
I 
am pleased to congratulate you, Sir, on your election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-
eighth session, and to welcome the fact that this lofty 
responsibility has been entrusted to a dear friend from 
Antigua and Barbuda, a member of our community of 
Latin American and Caribbean States. You can count 
on the firm support of Peru in the execution of your 
work.

At the outset, I wish to express our respect for and 
solidarity with the people of Mexico and Pakistan, 
who are suffering as a result of natural disasters. I also 
wish to express the strong rejection and condemnation 
of the Government and people of Peru of the terrorist 
attack in Nairobi. We are relieved that this horrendous 
attack has come to an end. We express our unwavering 
solidarity with the families of the victims and with the 
Government and people of Kenya at this difficult time.

The world is changing, the agenda is realigning, 
new actors are emerging and new horizons are coming 
into view for the future of humankind. All countries 
and peoples are affected by such rapid transformation. 
However, we note with concern that some fundamental 
truths have not changed. Wars continue, mostly in new 
forms, emerging from the shadows and exacting an 
ever higher price from innocent populations.

Regarding the Syrian tragedy, we express our 
solidarity with the Syrian people. Peru condemns 
the use of chemical weapons as unacceptable in all 
circumstances. It is an affront to humankind and a clear 
violation of international law. The Syrian people deserve 
an immediate solution to the bloody conflict ravaging 
their country. We therefore urge all parties involved to 
find a peaceful and negotiated solution that respects the 
mechanisms for the settlement of disputes. We also call 
on the Security Council to uphold its responsibility to 
maintain international peace and security.

At the same time, inequality is becoming ever 
more extreme. The gap marginalizing the poor from 
the benefits of progress and development widens by the 
day, robbing them of the rights enshrined in the Charter 
of the United Nations.

It is crucial for us to strengthen, renew and 
uphold our global commitment to developing peaceful 
relations among peoples and to seeking solutions 
that reject the use of force as means of solving our 
problems. It is therefore particularly gratifying for Peru 
and a source of genuine pride that we addressed our 
maritime delimitation dispute with Chile in the most 
constructive and cooperative way possible, through a 
mutual commitment to abiding by and enforcing the 
judgment to be rendered by the International Court of 
Justice. This process will, I trust, transform the very 
nature of our relationship into a profitable and enduring 
coexistence for the future of our neighbouring peoples.

The rule of law and its principles in the conduct of 
international affairs are therefore indispensable tools 
for our conduct as members of the community of peoples 
of the United Nations. However, the greatest threat to 
international peace and security falls not in the realm 
of relations between States, but transcends them and 
may even use them as tools for shadowy schemes. We 
are referring to terrorism, drug trafficking, organized 
crime, mafias and corruption. All of these crimes pose 
a genuine threat to life, progress and development, 
affecting primarily the poorest, which means that such 
crimes are increasingly becoming the main obstacle to 
the realization of the goals of the United Nations. 

The underlying problems remain the same. Peru 
therefore welcomes the fundamentally important 
theme you have chosen, Sir, for our discussions — the 
development agenda for beyond 2015, which is the 
deadline for achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs). 

Our country, happily, has made progress and 
attained some of the best benchmarks for achievement. 
Since 2000, according to United Nations Development 
Programme indicators, we achieved certain goals early, 
in particular in the fight against poverty and extreme 
poverty, hunger, child mortality, and access to safe 
drinking water. In 2000, more than half of Peruvians 
lived in poverty; today, only a quarter of my countrymen 
still face that situation. Our goal is to reduce those 
living in poverty to one fifth of our population by the 
end of my term, in 2016.

We have undertaken to realign the growth 
model by focusing on inclusion. In those efforts, the 
State is implementing a number of connected and 
interdependent policies. It is worth underscoring the 
unprecedented measure of devoting expenditure to the 
poorest and most excluded through a range of social 
programmes aimed at improving the living standards 
of the population, enhancing education for children 
and young people and promoting gender equality and 
access to health services, paying particular attention to 
those in vulnerable situations.



We are deeply concerned to note that the 
environment is deteriorating, which is having an impact 
on our security, in particular that of the most vulnerable. 
This is happening even as we remain unable to agree on 
measures to ensure our sustainable development. 

The development agenda must also pay particular 
attention to the empowerment of women and the 
protection of vulnerable groups. Our Government 
attaches particular importance to the rights of 
indigenous peoples. We were the first in the world to 
legislate and regulate the right to prior consultation on 
measures directly affecting such groups in accordance 
with Convention No. 169 of the International Labour 
Organization.

We are equally concerned about the rights of migrants 
and the opportunities for integrated development, to 
which they contribute, fostering inter-cultural dialogue 
and economic exchanges between their countries of 
origin and their host countries. In that vein, we have 
promoted the free movement of people and welcome the 
initiative of the Government of Spain to promote visa-
free entry for Peruvian nationals into the Schengen 
Area .

We therefore welcome the commitments contained 
in the document “The future we want”, adopted at the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
held last year (resolution 66/288, annex). The process 
proposed at that event to establish sustainable 
development goals should converge with the post-2015 
development agenda, leading to the greater capacity 
of the Organization to contribute to solving urgent 
problems and dealing with development challenges. 

We urgently need to integrate the various separate 
efforts. The United Nations should have a single, 
comprehensive development agenda. But to do so, we 
need to change the equation and place the fight for 
equality and against inequality at the centre of our 
efforts. Let us not make growth an end in itself; rather, 
we should turn it into a tool. That is why in Peru we 
believe that the right formula is “inclusion for growth.” 
That is the direction Peru proposes for the post-2015 
agenda.

Peru has made a quantum leap in its economy. We 
are currently among the fastest-growing countries. 
Responsible management of our economy has helped to 
create 800,000 new jobs so far during my Administration 
and has also helped to reduce unemployment by 
7 per cent. We are gradually diversifying our economy. 
Non-traditional exports account for one third of 
our total exports — more than $11 billion dollars 
today — and service exports account for $5 billion. We 
are developing our immense potential for tourism.

The economic growth in recent years has been 
extraordinary, and I must say it has been the result of 
much effort, rigour and work, as well as democratic 
continuity and perseverance. Peru has managed both 
to avoid the worst effects of global instability and to 
attract levels of investment flows that are unparalleled 
in our country’s history. Our task is to strengthen 
the foundations that have enabled such growth, in 
particular by strengthening democracy, institutions, 
the rule of law and security, building citizenship and 
opening spaces for participation.

We have the means to do that, since we are a 
country of entrepreneurs: 98 per cent of our businesses 
are small or medium-sized. They employ 75 per cent 
of the economically active population and contribute 
42 per cent of the gross domestic product. Thanks 
to our efforts, Peru is now considered an emerging, 
middle-income country, with new middle classes and a 
growing domestic consumption, and it is able to attract 
long-term investments for large projects.

Thanks to that and to the extent that we have 
strengthened our national capacities, we will be 
able to encourage industrial policies geared towards 
changing economic and social structures. For us, 
industrialization is a national goal. In order to move in 
that direction, in December Lima will host the fifteenth 
General Conference of the United Nations Industrial 
Development Organization.

Being centrally located on the map of South America 
and having played a key role in Latin American history, 
Peru views its region from the perspective of a country 
that seeks consensus, both internal and external. Peru 
is a country that perceives regional integration as an 
effective way to improve the present and future of 
our security and development. We Peruvians have an 
overriding conviction that, on our own, we can move 
forward rapidly, but together we can do that better and 
reach farther.

Peru is part of the Pacific Alliance, along with 
Mexico, Chile and Colombia. Together we are moving 
towards integration with a strategic projection towards 
the Asia-Pacific region and the world. In that region, 
which is home to the most dynamic economies of the 
twenty-first century, we are also part of the Asia-



Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum. We hosted the 
Leaders’ Meeting in 2008 and will host it again in 2016.

We are also a member of the Union of South 
American Nations, having recently completed our 
term as pro-tempore president. We participate in the 
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, 
which this year held its first summit with the Heads 
of State and Government of the European Union. 
We maintain our hemispheric roots through the 
Organization of American States, and at the subregional 
level, we are currently the pro-tempore president of the 
Andean Community. We consider all those forums to be 
complementary. We participate in them with a constant 
call for integration, dialogue and consensus.

Peru is a reliable partner committed to global 
causes. Our commitment to the values and principles 
of the General Assembly brings us to point out the 
need for reform. That is necessary in order to make the 
United Nations system more legitimate, representative, 
accountable and effective through the strengthening of 
its principal organs, specialized agencies and various 
organizations in the areas of security, development 
and human rights. Peru shares the position held by a 
large number of Member States on the need to reform 
and expand the Security Council so as to reflect the 
realities of the twenty-first century.

Our aspirations also entail more transparency 
and accountability on the part of individual economic 
actors and greater justice in the distribution of wealth. 
With those objectives in mind, in 2014 Peru will host 
the thirty-fifth session of the Economic Commission 
for Latin America and the Caribbean and in 2016 the 
fourteenth United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development. We thereby hope to contribute so that the 
Doha Round can be resumed, in the scope of the World 
Trade Organization, with better prospects.

In many parts of our Latin America and in Peru, 
republican States were weak from the start, concentrated 
in the capital city. Their core problem has been therefore 
that they have been unable to deal with the entire nation 
and have focused perhaps on one third of the country. 
It was impossible to build citizenship, since in practice 
there were different categories of Peruvians: those who 
received Government services and those who did not.

Our efforts must be directed at the creation of a 
twenty-first-century State, a State that serves all, 
not just a few. While this includes an eminently 
ethical component, its basis is not restricted to that 
important dimension. It also has profoundly practical 
repercussions for society at large. We cannot forget that 
a State that does not serve the entire population breeds 
and exacerbates inequality. As long as such degrees of 
inequality exist – and I will never tire of saying this - 
any policy aimed at combating poverty will have only 
relative effects.

For that reason, my Administration has worked not 
only on economic growth but in all areas of growth. The 
history of my country has seen other periods of growth, 
but they proved to be unsustainable and benefited very 
few. Economic growth is a means and not an end; it 
is an indispensable tool, but it is not sufficient. Our 
people, especially those who are most forgotten, cannot 
wait indefinitely for growth without the State actively 
promoting the extension of its benefits.

In addition, that will set in motion a virtuous circle 
in which progress for our most vulnerable countrymen 
and the development of a population free of extreme 
poverty, with health care and education for all, will 
create the conditions for even greater economic growth. 
That is why we stress the new political concept of 
simultaneous growth and redistribution. That is what 
I mean when I stress the necessity of “including so as 
to grow”.

Two years ago, less than two months into my term 
as President of Peru, I stood before the Assembly to 
emphasize my Government’s commitment to social 
inclusion. I said then that we were working to turn 
our economic growth into development and quality of 
life for my countrymen. I also said that we intended to 
hone our democracy so that it could solve the problems 
and meet the needs of all. The country we want is a 
prosperous one where all the Peruvians, women and 
men, without any distinction, can enjoy the benefits of 
growth in a dignified, safe and free manner. After two 
years in office, I reaffirm what I said; our commitment 
remains the same.


===== Session 69 - 2014 =====
My 
Government warmly welcomes the theme proposed for 
this debate regarding the post-2015 development agenda, 
since it directly addresses the most pressing problems 
facing humanity, namely, inequality, hunger, poverty, 
injustice and underdevelopment, factors that create 
situations that our community of the United Nations 
cannot and should not tolerate. We must address our 
task decisively, and in doing so we must be guided by 
the principles set forth in our Charter, but above all, we 
must have the firm commitment of all members of the 
international community. Our peoples, who are calling 
for the implementation of a truly transformational 
global development agenda, expect nothing else from 
us.

In that regard, I wish to point out that, by virtue of 
the universal, comprehensive and ambitious nature of 
our goals, the consensus achieved so far in the effort to 
define the sustainable development goals of the post-
2015 development agenda constitutes an essential point 
of departure for that purpose. In that regard, I think that 
the process in question deserves our strong support and 
must be allocated the requisite resources in a timely 
manner to ensure full implementation. Consistent with 
that principle, Peru fully supports this process and is 
confident that the adoption next year of the post-2015 
development agenda will lead to the establishment of a 
genuine global partnership for sustainable development. 
The process will have participatory monitoring 
mechanisms so as to ensure appropriate follow-up and 
monitoring.

I wish to highlight that a clear-cut convergence 
exists between the guidelines promoted by Peru 
through its public policies on social inclusion and the 
goals agreed upon by the Open Working Group on 
Sustainable Development Goals. In both cases, priority 
is placed on initiatives to reduce poverty and inequality 
in all its forms, and to eradicate extreme poverty and 
hunger, once and for all. Similarly, emphasis is placed 
on the struggle for equality, the empowerment of 
women, access to quality education and the elimination 
of all forms of gender-based violence and violence 
against children. It is also worth highlighting the 
importance of continuing sustainable economic growth 
and promoting formal and decent employment. Those 
issues, among others, are of vital importance to Peru.

To that end, we must reflect on what type of State 
we have today and move forward to meet the challenge. 
In the case of Peru, we are pleased to highlight that we 
have implemented a set of State reforms geared towards 
attaining those objectives. Peru has been working hard 
to consolidate and build upon the foundations for 
sustainable development. Our nation is a clear example 
of how it is possible to achieve substantial progress in 
just a few years, without straying from the fundamental 
principles of the Charter, such as peace and security, 
human rights and development. In fact, Peru is one of 
the countries that has made the most sustained progress 
in achieving the Millennium Development Goals, 
some of which will have been attained even before the 
2015 deadline. Thus, thanks to economic growth and a 
coordinated and comprehensive social policy, we have 
achieved significant progress in fighting poverty, given 
that we had set ourselves the goal for 2016 — the end of 

my term in office — to reduce that figure to under one 
fifth of the population.

In just one generation, Peruvians have implemented 
a deep transformation based on the pacification of the 
country, the consolidation of democracy, stability, 
the opening of its economy, as well as the creation 
and development of a social inclusion policy. That is 
precisely why our aspirations, objectives and goals are 
increasingly ambitious.

With that perspective, we see ourselves as an 
emerging country with strong institutions that is proud 
of its cultural diversity and of the skills of its people. 
We have made significant progress in the reduction of 
poverty and child malnutrition. Our country is built 
on an inclusive social platform that promotes equal 
opportunities, gender equality, justice and security.

My Administration is undertaking extraordinary 
efforts in that direction and has prioritized its action to 
focus on the fields of health care, education, security 
and social welfare. On previous occasions, I have 
talked about the body of first- and second-generation 
social programmes that we have been implementing, 
among which Qali Warma, which provides free meals 
in public schools, Juntos, a conditional cash-transfer 
programme, Pension 65, a non-contributory pension 
plan, and the Beca 18 scholarship programme are worth 
highlighting. All of those programmes are coordinated 
under a multisectoral strategy that prioritizes the 
human being and the family throughout their life cycle. 
That strategy, which we call “include to grow”, is 
intended not only to alleviate the immediate needs of 
the poor and extremely poor people but also to build 
the capacities of individuals and to create opportunities 
for all.

The Government of Peru has been increasing 
its budget for investment in social policies annually, 
reaching unprecedented figures. By way of example, I 
can point out that the budget for 2015 has increased by 
12 per cent over that of last year, and that approximately 
half of that increase has been allocated to education 
and health care. The remainder is primarily for the 
expansion of social programmes, the development of 
infrastructure and the improvement of public safety, 
since public safety is another major priority of my 
Administration. Given that challenge, we constantly 
monitor citizens’ demands and organize State action 
to effectively address those requests robustly and 
effectively in order to generate the climate of peace and 
trust much needed by our families.

Historically, Peru has faced another impediment 
to development: corruption. That is why we are 
taking drastic measures against those people who, in 
shameful exercise of their duties and public functions, 
betray citizens’ trust. In that regard, in Peru, we are 
implementing a concept of education and public and 
political ethics to be followed not only by those who 
govern Peru but by all citizens, with a major emphasis 
on those who implement and enforce the law. We are 
also considering barring from public office for life 
those who commit acts of corruption while carrying out 
their public duty.

I would now like to talk about another major 
challenge that we must overcome, namely, the world 
drug problem. I would appeal to the international 
community to continue to strengthen dialogue and 
cooperation so as to counter that scourge. We therefore 
believe that the special session of the General Assembly 
will be an opportunity for the international community 
to jointly address that issue in a cooperative way. The 
scope of the threat is clearly global, and our response 
must incorporate that dimension. We have given 
priority to a comprehensive strategy to implement 
alternative development and to support social inclusion 
programmes. In that way, we are regaining not only the 
territory but also, most importantly, the people.

However, in order to ultimately overcome that 
challenge successfully, all relevant actors must 
participate actively. The joint and shared responsibility 
of producers and users, as well as the transit and 
financing countries, must facilitate the establishment 
of a comprehensive strategy, in which all those involved 
assume their responsibilities and adopt binding 
solutions.

On the economic front, the recent adoption of 
a national production diversification programme to 
expand our production base, bring about a historical 
change in the country’s economic structure and create 
formal employment seeks to leverage our capabilities and 
resources by promoting sustainable industrialization, 
entrepreneurship and access to science and technology. 
We are thereby adding value to our production and 
making our growth and development sustainable.

We seek to continue expanding and deepening 
our trade relations, improve the existing 17 trade 
agreements that cover approximately 95 per cent of 
our foreign trade, while also moving towards the 
completion of the Doha Round of the World Trade 
Organization. Peru’s aspiration to a more integrated 


world is widely recognized. We therefore give particular 
priority to any participatory forum, such as the Pacific 
Alliance, which is an initiative that promotes the free 
movement of persons, goods, services and capital and 
cooperation among its members, as well as the Asia-
Pacific Economic Cooperation. That aspiration also 
includes the right of all countries to achieve the highest 
level of social, economic and trade development. 
We therefore reiterate once again the call to end the 
economic blockade against Cuba, which affects that 
country’s economic growth and delays its social and 
human development and has an impact on the welfare 
of its citizens.

Peru’s relationships with its neighbours are 
excellent. I wish to highlight the recent settlement of 
the maritime dispute with Chile, achieved on the basis 
of international law and the principle of the peaceful 
settlement of disputes, as well as the fact that the 
handing down of the ruling of the International Court 
of Justice was the fastest in its history. In general, the 
way in which the entire case was conducted makes Peru 
and Chile an example for the world.

Peru affirms its active participation in the 
international community. In that context, we will be the 
host country for the twentieth United Nations Climate 
Change Conference in December. On that occasion, the 
discussions will be important but national commitments 
will be essential. Today, I say that we need to organize 
the largest alliance in history to address that critical 
challenge, in which the agreements reached will define 
the future of our civilization. As the host country, I urge 
the heads of State and Government to maintain their 
political will, so as to move forward constructively with 
representatives that have the capacity to take decisions. 
It is not only a matter of capitalizing on the Green 
Climate Fund but also one of clearly setting out national 
commitments and achieving a binding agreement.

We must be conscious that, for the first time, 
humankind has achieved the capacity for mass 
destruction without resorting to nuclear energy. In 
that regard, it is vital that the international community 
become aware that world problems, such as climate 
change, require global, rather than national, responses. 
According to a 2011 study by the Economic Commission 
for Latin America and the Caribbean, the cost of global 
warming to Peru is revealed in floods, droughts, thaws 
and warming waters and amounts to approximately 4 per 
cent of Peru’s annual gross domestic product (GDP). If 
we do not take immediate action, the economic impact 
of climate change could be over 5 per cent of GDP by 
2030 and 20 per cent by 2050. Peru also recently ratified 
the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources 
and the Fair and Equitable Sharing of Benefits Arising 
from Their Utilization to the Convention on Biological 
Diversity, which will soon be in force to promote such 
genetic resources.

Today’s general debate finds us in a complex 
scenario with various severe political, humanitarian 
and economic crises. We are faced with major global 
economic challenges regarding international security 
and global governance. The Security Council’s ability 
to respond to the various crises around the world 
has revealed the need to reform its work methods, 
including those related to the use of the veto. The 
Security Council needs to respond in an effective way 
to those situations, which requires comprehensive 
reform, including increasing the number of permanent 
and non-permanent members, making that body more 
efficient, democratic, transparent and representative.

Specifically on the Palestine issue, my Government 
confirms the need to address the root causes of that 
conflict through negotiations to achieve a viable and 
lasting solution, overcoming the status quo and enabling 
Palestinians and Israelis to live in peace and to prosper 
in the two States with secure and recognized borders.

The international community faces various ever-
growing phenomena that transcend borders. I am 
referring to terrorism, transnational organized crime, 
the global drug problem, corruption, trafficking in 
persons, sexual exploitation, trafficking in young boys 
and girls and in adolescents, and arms smuggling, 
among others. With regard to acts committed by 
terrorist groups all over the world in recent months, my 
country knows the consequences of such acts very well, 
and they have been most energetically rejected by my 
Government.

Combating terrorism is a responsibility that 
the international community must assume within 
the framework of the law, with full respect for the 
fundamental rights of all peoples and the sovereignty 
of States. Regarding the condemnable events that 
have occurred in several regions of the world, the 
Government of Peru has expressed its strong rejection 
of such barbaric and terrorist attacks by extremist 
groups against the lives of innocent civilian hostages 
and religious and ethnic minorities. Those intolerable 
events deserve the firmest condemnation by the 
international community.


Peru is not just a country with its own history; it 
is also a civilization. Its culture is part of the world 
heritage of humankind, as recognized by UNESCO. 
That recognition signifies a universal recognition of 
the extraordinary work of our ancestors, who knew 
how to harmonize development and the environment in 
a sensible and creative way.

I would like to conclude by reiterating Peru’s 
commitment to the development and implementation 
of the post-2015 agenda, focusing on sustainable 
development goals, and by reiterating my call to 
allocate the means required to make them a reality. In 
the context of the upcoming Conference of the Parties 
to the Convention on Biological Diversity (COP-20) in 
Lima, I wish to reiterate my commitment and that of the 
Peruvian Government to the Conference objectives, and 
we call upon the international community to participate 
actively with a constructive spirit for sustainable 
development in the interest of our peoples. Peru, the 
cradle of the Inca civilization and the international 
capital of excellent gastronomy, is ready to welcome 
everyone.


===== Session 70 - 2015 =====
It is an honour for me to address the General Assembly and to convey my congratulations to President Lykketoft on his election. Peru is ready to contribute to the success of his mandate.
Seventy years ago, we established the United Nations Organization so as to maintain international peace and security, promote and protect human rights and cooperate at the international level for the development of our peoples. We now renew our commitment to its purposes and principles and affirm the need to continue working to ensure that its vision becomes a tangible reality for all and that we leave future generations a sustainable planet.
My country is particularly proud to have been a founding member of the Organization and to have steadfastly been committed to its Charter and to multilateralism. We would like now to recall three illustrious Peruvians who held three high-ranking posts: Ambassador Javier Pérez de Cuéllar, who was Secretary-General; the former President of Peru, José Luis Bustamante y Rivero, who was President of the International Court of Justice; and Mr. Víctor Andrés Belaúnde, who was President of the General Assembly.
There is no doubt that the United Nations system has contributed, and continues to contribute, a great deal to the progress of humankind. We must realize that, for over 70 years, we have not seen another major war such as the ones that beset the world in the first half of the twentieth century, nor has there been an economic crisis of the magnitude of the Great Depression. However, there is no doubt that the achievements of the United Nations have not reached everyone equally. The world compels us to rethink what kind of Organization it is that we need and to redouble our efforts to ensure that peace and security, human rights and sustainable development are truly universal.
Peru attaches the greatest importance to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1). We have agreed to transform the world in a single
8/18 15-29940

02/10/2015 A/70/PV.27
generation in a process throughout which our people have been heard and our cultural diversity has been acknowledged as a catalyst for development. For the first time in history, humankind has a universal instrument through which we have committed ourselves to eradicating poverty in all its forms and dimensions and to achieving sustainable development over the next 15 years without leaving anyone behind. In fact, we have decided to strengthen and renew the global partnership for sustainable development. In line with Peru’s priorities for social inclusion, we are happy to see that the 2030 Agenda reflects that same transformational character throughout.. We must be inclusive in order to grow, and we must give priority to the economic and social groups that have been left behind and those that are most vulnerable, which, more often than not, include indigenous peoples, the elderly, persons with disabilities and migrants.
In order to implement the new Agenda it is essential to allocate sufficient resources. We need to increase the budgets for programmes that involve social inclusion, especially in the fields of health and education, giving priority to the care of our children, gender equality and the empowerment of women. Peru considers it vital to adopt at the twenty-first meeting of the Conference of Parties to the United Nations Framework Conference on Climate Change, to be held in Paris in December, a universally binding, ambitious and balanced agreement to address climate change. As the current Acting President of that Conference, Peru is sparing no effort to reach that goal, in accordance with the Lima Call for Climate Action. Climate change and environmental challenges are endless. The experts say that we will be facing a particularly serious situation with regard to El Niño over the next few years. We must invest more in disaster prevention and risk reduction as part of our development plans. Peru, a country of stupendous biodiversity, would also like to call attention to the great potential of biodiversity for development. In that regard, we are particularly concerned about the preservation and sustainable use of land and sea ecosystems.
As is the case with sustainable development, the United Nations must make strides in the area of international peace and security in order to ensure respect for and promotion of human rights. Peru commends the important progress that has been made towards achieving peace in the sister Republic of Colombia. We also welcome the restoration of relations between the Republic of Cuba and the United States,
and we again appeal for an end to the economic and financial blockade.
Concerning the question of Palestine, the Security Council must be proactive in promoting a dialogue that leads to direct negotiations. Palestinians and Israelis should live together in peace and should prosper in two States within secure and internationally recognized borders. The status quo is unsustainable. Peru reaffirms its commitment to defending and promoting human rights, the rule of law, the peaceful resolution of disputes and conflict prevention.
We believe that the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court should be universally recognized. We therefore encourage States that have not yet done so to fully accede to their respective statutes. We must strengthen our ability to react to humanitarian crises and prevent impunity for atrocities. No State can ignore the responsibility to protect human beings. Peru deplores the situation that has developed in Syria and the evil crimes of the so-called Islamic State.
We must ensure the continued legitimacy of the Security Council. It is vital that we work to achieve its comprehensive reform, both in its composition and working methods and by restricting the use of the veto, if we are to ensure its representativeness and effectiveness. In that regard, Peru has been working within the Accountability, Consistency and Transparency group on the adoption of a code of conduct that can guide the Security Council’s action where heinous crimes are concerned.
Aware of the new tasks included in the mandates of peacekeeping operations, Peru will be sending an engineering company to the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic, the first time that a Peruvian company has deployed outside our region.
Peru has been working to deal decisively and effectively with the global drug problem. In that regard, we have been implementing a successful strategy with a comprehensive approach that includes actions aimed at prevention, control and interdiction, as well as sustainable alternative development programmes for farmers. In the past year, as a result of that strategy, we recorded a net reduction in illicit crops that was almost 14 per cent greater and cocaine seizures that were 40 per cent higher than the figures for 2013. In the past year alone, we expanded our alternative development
15-29940 9/18

A/70/PV.27 02/10/2015
programmes to cover more than 50,000 hectares, and we have reforested about 15,000 hectares that had been affected by illicit crops. The special session in 2016 that the General Assembly will devote to the scourge of drugs should reaffirm full enforcement of the international conventions relating to drugs and the commitment to addressing the problem through national strategies.
We also consider it very important to continue promoting an environment conducive, at every level, to effective arms control, including limiting conventional weapons and enforcing the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We reaffirm our commitment to the Arms Trade Treaty and the principles of disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation, without prejudice to the inalienable right of all States to research and produce nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
As I noted at the beginning of my statement, the international community is taking on the ambitious task of transforming the world by eradicating poverty and achieving sustainable development through its implementation of the 2030 Agenda. In order to achieve the new Agenda’s Goals, States will have to significantly increase the resources that they dedicate to the implementation of the Goals and strengthen international cooperation in every way. A renewed global partnership should also strengthen cooperation in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation and promote confidence-building measures aimed at preventing conflicts, arms races and humanitarian crises, because without peace there can be no development. Seventy years after its creation, this Organization can and should contribute to making a reality of the future we all want.


===== Session 71 - 2016 =====
It is an honour to address the General Assembly, to congratulate the President on his election to the presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-first session, and to express Peru’s willingness to contribute to the success of his stewardship.
Two months ago, when I began my term as President of the Republic of Peru, I expressed a commitment to the goals set forth by the founders of our Republic. In 2021, Peruvians will celebrate 200 years of our independent life, thereby consolidating a sound democracy, one that is socially functional and prosperous, with better opportunities for jobs and equality and where human rights are promoted. Our Government’s plans and public policies coincide with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, which are enshrined in the 2030 Agenda. They include access to water, education, health care for all Peruvians and other services that are vital in order to drastically reduce poverty, in the context of a full-scale battle against corruption, discrimination, insecurity and drug trafficking.
One key objective of my Government is to ensure the efficient management of safe water and sanitation for all. We will ensure access to drinking water and sewerage systems for all those families that do not now have such basic services, which accounts for about 10 million inhabitants, or almost a third of our people. We will make a significant investment that will prioritize the Amazon and Andean regions. We will work with non-traditional systems for potable water for non-urban areas, and we will implement systems for rainwater-harvesting in the Amazon and undertake public works through the reforestation programme known as “Blue Mountains”, aimed at harvesting water in the highlands of the Andean Mountains. I believe that interaction with the United Nations in that regard is a priority. I am therefore very honoured to have participated in the High-level Panel on Water just a few days ago.
Another very important issue for my Government is to promote green growth, while coordinating the use of land-based and marine ecosystems. The Paris Agreement on Climate Change should serve as an inspiration for us to implement those policies. Peru is a country that is particularly vulnerable, and we see that on a daily basis in the melting of our glaciers and in the extreme cold that occurs in southern Peru sometimes, both of which have compelled us to redirect our scarce resources to meet those challenges.
Peru is promoting such policies so as to become a member, as quickly as possible, of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. My Government’s Administration has a clear vision of the new challenges and responsibilities that Peru must grapple with, which leads us to deepen our agreements with countries that have similar prospects, problems and challenges. They include our partners in the Pacific Alliance, namely, Colombia, Chile and Mexico. It would also include Brazil and Argentina, which are important neighbours, along with Ecuador. Together with them, we are tackling, in a harmonious and coordinated manner, the challenges of development in the twenty- first century.
Peru has a firm commitment to defending and definitively strengthening representative democracy, human rights and the rule of law. That commitment was clearly enshrined in the democratic Charter of the Organization of American States. In that context, fundamental freedoms, the right to participate freely in political life and the separation of, and respect for, the balance of powers are the cornerstones for the governability of our region and can ensure a future with hope.
We also respect the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States, something that was established and introduced by the Latin American countries as a norm of international law a century ago. However, respect for that principle cannot, and should not, go against defence interests and the promotion of democracy and human rights, which consitute an irrevovable heritage for future generations. In that context, it is imperative to mention our concern regarding the critical political, economic and social situation that our friends in Venezuela are currently experiencing. Full-fledged democracy requires absolute respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as due process. It also requires fully guaranteeing respect for the separation and balance of powers. The situation in Venezuela has been impacted by extreme violence, social and political confrontation and severe shortages of food and medicine. In order to address that multifaceted crisis, we call in solidarity for an internal political dialogue to begin as soon as possible, without conditions or restrictions and within a context of full respect for the Constitution. Peru is ready and willing to undertake all the necessary efforts that might assist our Venezuelan friends in bringing about a solution to their problems. We will work with the countries of the Pacific Alliance in that endeavour, especially with Venezuela’s neighbouring country of Colombia, where we shall be in a few days to witness the signing of the peace agreement with the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia.
In conclusion, I would like to convey to the General Assembly that the Government that I lead in Peru is an advocate of modernization, compatible with the efforts promoted by the United Nations system, in a global, interdependent context, which has, however, unfortunately been affected by a series of grave conflicts that have been mentioned here today and throughout all of our debates.
Various parts of the world are experiencing a crisis of confidence, setbacks in globalization, populist and protectionist temptations and an almost unprecedented wave of refugees, as the King of Jordan mentioned a moment ago. Our aim in South America and Latin America is to create a bridge of stability and cooperation between the Pacific and the Atlantic that seeks to promote the gradual restoration of peace and prosperity in the western hemisphere.
Finally, I wish to congratulate the Secretary-General on his decade of service to the international community in such an important role.


===== Session 72 - 2017 =====
It is an honour for me to address the General Assembly and congratulate the President on his election, and to express our willingness to contribute to the success of his term. I wish first of all to emphasize Peru’s commitment to the Charter of the United Nations, to international peace and security, to sustainable development and to human rights, and to the achievement of sustainable peace. For that, we need to strengthen multilateralism, dialogue and cooperation.
For Peru, the United Nations is essential for building a peaceful and sustainable future, facing global challenges such as climate change, terrorism or corruption, and strengthening international governance in order to obtain a more humane, open and inclusive globalization. Peru is preparing to become a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the biennium 2018-2019. Our vocation for peace and respect for international law, effective collective security and adherence to the peaceful settlement of disputes will be the guiding principles of our action.
We are a developing country that has suffered terrorism at first hand. We are a firm defender of human rights and a promoter of democracy and the rule of law. We will give special attention to consolidating sustainable peace and preventing conflicts and humanitarian crises.
The proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the possible access of terrorist groups to them are real threats. That is why we have signed the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, and we hope that all States possessing such weapons will adhere to that instrument.
We condemn the nuclear tests and ballistic missile launches by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, which today constitute the greatest threat to international peace and security. In the Security Council, we will support efforts to resume the Six-Party Talks in order to denuclearize the Korean peninsula.
Peru reaffirms its commitment to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and its implementation. Our country is particularly vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change, which is seen in ocean warming, shrinking glaciers and the impact on the availability of water resources, the loss of biodiversity and other extreme phenomena. Climate change is a real threat that knows no borders. So far this year Peru has suffered from the rain and flooding of the coastal El Nino, and the Caribbean and the United States have suffered a series of devastating hurricanes. That is why we support the initiative of President Emmanuel Macron of France to establish a Global Pact for the Environment.
Peru is also committed to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Accordingly, we presented our first voluntary national review in July, reporting on our progress in implementing the 2030 Agenda in line with our national priorities, circumstances and needs. Peru promotes, from a focus on rights, a social revolution aimed at eradicating poverty through quality public services. Ensuring access to water and sanitation is the first priority of our Government, which accounts for the participation of President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski in the High-level Panel on Water.
In line with the 2030 Agenda, we believe that corruption is also a global threat, one that erodes democratic governance and legal stability in our countries, diverts resources needed to finance development, generates disenchantment and mistrust in institutions and increases inequality. Aware of the need to confront that scourge together, Peru has proposed that democratic governance and the fight against corruption be the central themes of the Summit of the Americas to be held in Lima next April, with a view to adopting concrete measures to strengthen institutions and combat impunity.
The adoption of the standards and good practices of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development — which Peru aspires to join before 2021, the year of our bicentennial as an independent nation — will also contribute to strengthening our institutions and achieving the Sustainable Development Goals
Peruvians believe that democracy is indispensable for stability, peace, development and the defence and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Guided by that conviction, my country led the process that culminated in the adoption of the Inter-American Democratic Charter in 2001.
In our region, democracy is an inalienable right, which is why Peru remains profoundly concerned with the rupture of the democratic order and humanitarian crisis happening in Venezuela, as well as by the infringements on and abuses of citizens that have been reported by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. The solution to the grave crisis in Venezuela must be peaceful and be negotiated by the Venezuelans themselves. Any attempt, internal or external, to resort to force violates the principles of theCharter of the Organization and undermines genuine interest in defending democracy and respect for the rule of law, both domestically and internationally.
Along those lines, the Lima Group believes that the initiative of the Dominican Republic to bring together the Government and the opposition should be developed with good faith, rules, objectives, clear deadlines and guarantees of compliance, for which international accompaniment is essential.
To conclude, I wish to convey to the General Assembly that Peru will continue to work constructively to solve the problems we face and to bring about the future that our peoples long for and deserve.

===== Session 73 - 2018 =====
At the outset, I want to welcome Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés,  who  is  assuming  the  presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-third session, and to wish her a successful mandate. I am sure that her role will promote the multilateral system. She has Peru’s support.
I assumed the presidency of Peru just six months ago, when my country was facing a serious political and institutional crisis that we dealt with by ensuring full respect for the provisions of our political Constitution, which made it possible to restore the democratic stability that my country had been  longing  for.  A  few days after my term began, we had the honour of welcoming the leaders of 30 countries to the eighth Summit of the Americas, which resulted in the signing of the Lima Commitment to democratic governance against corruption. The agreement consists of 57 specific measures and actions to strengthen the fight against corruption and regional cooperation in that fight, including increasing transparency, accountability and political parties’ use of banks in their election campaigns, as well as a call to the countries in our
 hemisphere to consider restricting access to public office for people convicted of corruption.
We are aware that corruption affects democratic governance and the rule of law. Nothing can be built on the basis of entities immersed in corruption. One of the first decisions that my Government took was therefore to establish an overall policy for the Government policy through 2021. Its main thrusts are integrity and the fight against corruption, as well as strengthening governance institutions. Within that framework, we have approved a 2018-2021 national plan for integrity and combating corruption. In addition, two months ago we submitted to the legislature a series of bills aimed at legal and political reform that also involve constitutional reforms, in which a few days ago our Congress expressed its confidence and its commitment to submitting for a referendum to be held on 9 December, involving the participation and decision-making of the entire citizenry through its vote.
I am pleased to announce that Peru is making progress towards its long-awaited political reforms and justice-system reforms through constitutional and participatory mechanisms that honour our commitments made at the Summit of the Americas in Lima. We believe that only joint efforts by the State authorities, along with transparency, accountability and citizens’ participation can enable us to build the country we deserve. In that context, I would like to announce that Peru will promote the adoption of a draft resolution within the framework of the United Nations Convention against Corruption and its Conference of States Parties, aimed at strengthening the cooperation needed to combat that scourge, especially large-scale corruption and its transnational reach. We also want to promote a decisive effort by the Assembly aimed at encouraging all States to renew their political commitment to fight corruption and to explore new and more effective ways of combating it. Every year corruption diverts 5 per cent of the world’s gross domestic product to enrich the few rather than directing those resources to effectively meeting the Sustainable Development Goals for the benefit of those who need it most.
With regard to climate change, it is clear that Peru is one of the world’s most vulnerable countries in terms of climate change. Our people’s primary natural asset is our great biodiversity, and changes in temperature and extreme climatic events such as droughts and heavy rains therefore make us particularly vulnerable. As a country we have worked hard to create a legal
 
framework that ensures predictability for investments with high environmental and social standards through a focus on production, protection and inclusion. In order to combat climate change, we have to overcome poverty. We need responsible investments to continue growing because the poorest of our people are the most vulnerable to the effects of climate change.
I had the privilege, in one of my Government’s first actions, to see a climate change framework law enacted with the aim of reducing our vulnerability to climate change and taking advantage of opportunities for growth through low-emission development. Furthermore, we are one of the few countries that has an action plan for both gender and climate change, because women are the most vulnerable of all. I would also like to point out that we all have a moral obligation to protect our planet for future generations and guarantee our citizens the right to a healthy environment. That is both my personal belief and a State policy, so I can assure the Assembly that Peru will continue to promote action   at the national and international levels to effectively combat climate change.
As we work to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which have already been incorporated into our national development plans, our primary responsibility is to achieve them with political determination and courage through the involvement of citizens and the private sector. We will also pay special attention to combating violence and discrimination against women. Our objective is to overcome the structural inequalities that women and girls suffer from in Peru, to guarantee their human rights and empower them to achieve their full development potential.
In an international context in which nationalist discourses promoting economic and commercial protectionism, discrimination and xenophobia are re-emerging, I believe it is necessary to reaffirm Peru’s commitment to multilateralism and to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. As a member of the Security Council, Peru reaffirms its willingness to contribute to international peace and security, particularly through its active participation in peacekeeping operations. In that important body, we will continue to advocate for harmonious work based on international law and international humanitarian law. For a developing country like Peru, the United Nations represents a platform for shared action to achieve sustainable development, promote human rights
and address global challenges such as climate change, terrorism, the proliferation of weapons, systematic corruption and illicit drug trafficking.
I would like to express my country’s commitment to free trade, which has enabled us to generate wealth, reduce poverty and make progress on sustainable development. We recognize the important role played by the World Trade Organization in ensuring the stability, predictability and transparency of the multilateral trading system. I invite every country to make the same commitment and to avoid protectionist measures, which, if implemented, will represent a setback both for developed countries and for those of us in the process of development.
With regard to democracy and human rights in  our region, I would like to reaffirm our democratic orientation, which led us to head the process that resulted in the adoption of the Inter-American Democratic Charter in 2001. The Charter reflects the commitment of the countries of the Americas to defending democracy, respecting human rights and upholding fundamental freedoms in the region. That commitment encourages us to seek ways to help to re-establish the democratic order where necessary. That is why Peru condemns  the breakdown of constitutional order in Venezuela. We will continue to promote initiatives to help restore democracy in our sister country within the framework of the Organization of American States, the Lima Group and in other multilateral forums. We reiterate our concern about and condemnation of the serious human rights violations in Venezuela denounced by the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, which among other violations have reported extrajudicial killings. Peru has also filed a complaint with the Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court with a view to punishing those responsible for the crimes committed in Venezuela.
My country expresses its unwavering solidarity with the Venezuelan people and calls for an urgent response to the serious humanitarian crisis in Venezuela, which has led to a flood of migrants and refugees throughout our region. My Government has taken steps to help to regulate the influx of the more than 450,000 Venezuelan migrants who have come to Peru in search of a decent future. However, the scope of the exodus is unprecedented in our region and requires a collective response from the international community.
 
I conclude by expressing our confidence in the potential of multilateralism,  international  law  and the principle of the  peaceful settlement  of  disputes in responding to the challenges before us, promoting sustainable peace and development and guaranteeing the human rights of  our citizens. Peru will continue  to work constructively within the framework of the Organization to achieve the goals of the founding Charter of the United Nations.


===== Session 74 - 2019 =====
First of all, I would like to express my best wishes for the success of the presidency of this session of the General Assembly and to assure the Assembly of Peru’s support for, and commitment to, the work of the United Nations.
I firmly believe that the future is built with the actions we take today. For that reason, I call for concerted efforts to ensure peace, promote sustainable development and care for and protect the planet on the basis of dialogue and respect among our peoples, while always thinking of future generations when making decisions. Increasing social and economic inequality and high levels of corruption and impunity in a number of countries pose a latent risk to the future of democracy and governance and a source of discontent and apathy among citizens. The economic uncertainty that has persisted since the global financial crisis of 2008 has been exacerbated by trade tensions among the major players of the world economy.
That is why today, as never before, we must redouble our efforts at dialogue and constructive participation in order to find multilateral solutions to global problems. To that end, we must take into account the lessons drawn from the negotiation processes that, in 2015, led to historic milestones such as the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Peru, a country with a pacifist and integrationist outlook, reaffirms its commitment to those agreements.
Together with Colombia, we have coordinated efforts in that context with various Member States to agree a United Nations mandate for holding a special session of the General Assembly, in the first half of 2021, to address the fight against corruption. One challenge for that initiative will be to adopt a political declaration on the issue. I am confident that we will have everyone’s support and constructive participation. We hope that the head-on fight against corruption and impunity will become a global crusade.
Here at Headquarters one year ago (see A/73/PV.6), I noted that I had been given the honour of leading Peru during a serious political and institutional crisis. I also emphasized how corruption had become a cancer that was preventing us from taking advantage of all the potential that we have to achieve greater levels of progress and development, in the face of which my
Government could not stand by idly. That is why we undertook a number of judicial and political reforms, which are now under way, in an effort to restore the effectiveness, prestige and legitimacy of our institutions.
I would like to inform the Assembly today that a few weeks ago, we established four key norms of political reform, culminating from the debate, dialogue and consensus reached within the framework of the constitutional bodies and legal channels that govern the democratic life of my country. Those reforms will strengthen the Peruvian democratic system through rules on the registration and financing of political parties, on the exercise of internal party democracy, on parity and on alternation in the lists of candidates for the Congress of the Republic.
In the 18 months of my Government, we have managed to guide an orderly transition out of that crisis and to directly combat the corruption entrenched in all branches of the State. I lead a democratic Government that fully respects the separation and independence of powers. All our decisions have been, and continue to be, made within the framework of the political Constitution and the legal system. The rule of law, freedom of the press and freedom of expression are unrestricted in my country, as are the autonomy and independence of the judiciary and the Public Ministry to administer justice.
My country is currently undergoing a process of change that will allow us to embark on a new phase of growth and development. I must underline that those changes are being made exclusively by democratic means. That is why, to confront a situation of political entrapment that has lasted for three years, we have submitted to the Congress of the Republic a bill on constitutional reform that would advance the general elections in order to shorten the mandate of the executive and legislative branches by one year. That requires an act of detachment on the part of all. I am confident that we will achieve that for the good of the country.
After decades of sustained growth, the Peruvian economy continues to show resilience despite the challenges of the international climate. For that reason, my Government has undertaken participatory and inclusive efforts to address the challenges to development, leading to significant results as reflected in two legal instruments that will be key to Peru’s development — the national competitiveness and productivity plan and the national infrastructure plan for competitiveness.
Those instruments include measures to underpin the country’s medium- and long-term growth and constitute a transparent and consensus-based development agenda to bridge key gaps for Peru’s economic and social development. Similarly, they demonstrate the important efforts made by the public and private sectors and the capacity of Peruvians to overcome our differences in order to work for the future of the country and achieve higher levels of well-being.
Those objectives seek, inter alia, to provide the country with quality infrastructure, strengthen human capital, develop innovation capacities, stimulate a dynamic and competitive labour market, promote foreign trade in goods and services and achieve environmental sustainability.
I once again reaffirm Peru’s conviction and commitment to democracy and human rights. That commitment has led us to promote and support actions to re-establish the democratic order where it has been broken. I recall in that regard the International Conference for Democracy on Venezuela, which we organized and held in August in our capital city of Lima. The presence of 60 delegations from the five continents illustrated the global concern about a crisis whose impact spills over the national borders of the region.
There is no doubt that the rupture of the constitutional order and the entrenchment in power of an illegitimate regime in Venezuela are at the root of the political, institutional and humanitarian crisis that has generated an exodus of more than 4 million people, 900,000 of whom are in Peru. Faced with that crisis, Peru will continue to promote international initiatives and efforts to re-establish democracy in that fraternal country, within the framework of a peaceful process led by Venezuelans, and will continue to condemn serious human rights violations.
That International Conference underscored the urgent need to effectively address the humanitarian situation in Venezuela, in particular the enormous resources required to address the Venezuelan exodus, the full extent of which the international community still does not understand. I therefore encourage them to make every effort to reverse that situation.
Peru aspires to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030, as an appropriate universal framework for the promotion of peace, development and human rights. We have initiated national efforts to make them a reality with determination and political courage, especially by engaging women and young people.
Peru is committed to strengthening the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of national gender equality policies, as well as to incorporating that approach at all levels of public administration. Peru is also a leader in the fight against sexual violence at all levels. In that context, I would like to reiterate our commitment to Goal 5 of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which calls on us to join efforts to end all forms of discrimination against women and girls.
We are committed to building a peaceful and inclusive country, with transparent and accountable institutions, based on good governance, the head-on fight against corruption and the strengthening of the rule of law, especially in line with Sustainable Development Goal 16. We know from our own experience in Peru that it is possible to transform a country in one generation.
The growth of the Peruvian economy in the past 20 years has allowed us to markedly reduce poverty. Today our development policies and their financing are oriented primarily towards education, health and the infrastructure that Peruvians need in order to integrate and compete in global markets under equal conditions. We also promote greater formalization of our economy and the creation of decent employment for all. To that end, we reiterate the importance of promoting the policies of economic and commercial openness and the promotion of the green economy required to involve the private sector in financing sustainable development. In that context, Peru reaffirms its commitment to a rules-based multilateral trading system, as reflected in the World Trade Organization, and encourages everyone to work towards strengthening and improving that organization in order to guarantee the stability, predictability and transparency of the multilateral trading system, for the benefit of all.
Peru is a country that is particularly vulnerable to climate change and the risk of natural disasters. That is why we have made an ambitious commitment to comply with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. We have elaborated a realistic work plan for the next two years, based on technical evidence, with the expectation of being able to improve Peru’s nationally determined contributions by 2020. We have drawn up a road map with 91 adaptation measures and 62 climate-change mitigation measures that incorporate cross-cutting approaches to gender and interculturality, which will allow Peru to reach its nationally determined contributions by 2030.
As one of the world’s 10 megadiverse countries, Peru witnesses the serious impacts of climate change on biodiversity and ecosystems, particularly in the Amazon. For that reason, the President of Colombia and I, in my capacity as President of Peru, decided to convene a summit on 6 September with six countries of the region to address the challenges of the fires that have affected the Amazon. The outcome of that meeting was the Leticia Amazon Pact, through which we reaffirm our commitment to conserving the Amazon forests and their sustainable development, while promoting full respect for the rights of the indigenous peoples who inhabit them. We also established an Amazon network to enhance cooperation in the face of natural disasters. I invite other Governments and interested actors, with full respect for the sovereignty of the Amazonian countries, to support us in the implementation of the Pact.
Likewise, at the national level, we attach special importance to the establishment of priority areas for fighting deforestation, aimed at reducing deforestation in priority areas by 20 per cent by 2021 and by 30 per cent by 2030. We are working on a national adaptation plan that aims to improve the resilience of the population, particularly those most vulnerable to the adverse effects of climate change.
Peru supports any initiative that would help limit the increase in global temperature. That is why we accept with enthusiasm and a sense of responsibility the invitation extended by the Secretary-General to co-lead the Social and Political Drivers of Climate Action Coalition. Peru is also organizing the first high-level conference on the illegal wildlife trade in the Americas, to be held in Lima on 3 and 4 October, in order to generate commitments and implement actions to combat that illicit trade among the countries of the Americas, while promoting the involvement of key transit and destination countries.
All of those actions undoubtedly serve to reaffirm our conviction of the need to create an ambitious global framework for biodiversity beyond 2020, in whose preparatory process Peru has been actively participating.
Peru’s commitment to international peace and security and multilateralism is reflected both in our work in the Security Council and in our active participation in United Nations peace operations since 1958. We currently have Blue Helmets deployed in six peace operations and aspire to increase that participation in order to continue to offer a source of hope and humanitarian support to thousands of people around the world, particularly the most vulnerable.
We therefore welcome the reforms that Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has been promoting to strengthen the Organization’s work in the area of peace and security so as to increase the effectiveness and added value of peace operations. As a non-permanent member of the Security Council, Peru has promoted realistic and flexible mandates for peace operations, and we reaffirm our commitment to provide duly trained and disciplined troops who are respectful of host populations, with a progressive increase in the participation of Peruvian women.
I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the men and women who have given their lives in the cause of peace over the past year. In particular, I would like to pay tribute to the memory of the Peruvian non-commissioned officer Edwin Augusto Chira Reyes, who died serving in the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic.
In the Security Council, Peru has constantly sought the unity of its members in order to contribute to the solution of the serious conflicts that are currently taking place in various regions that, in some cases, such as the Middle East, threaten to escalate and seriously jeopardize world peace. We have also prioritized initiatives that seek to limit the serious consequences of those conflicts for the most vulnerable populations, especially women and children, while ensuring respect for international humanitarian law and addressing the root causes of those conflicts. That has been complemented by the priority given to the involvement of women and young people in national processes of preventing and resolving conflict and of peacebuilding.
In its capacity as Chair of the Counter-Terrorism Committee, Peru has promoted various efforts to address the scourge of terrorism. We have also fostered a deeper understanding of the nature and scope of the links between international terrorism and organized crime, with a view to identifying and dismantling them, in particular through Security Council resolution 2482 (2019), adopted unanimously during our presidency last July (see S/PV.8582).
Finally, on behalf of the people and the Government of Peru, I reiterate our firm commitment to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, as well as our conviction that multilateralism is a means of addressing such global problems as climate change, terrorism, the proliferation of weapons, corruption and illicit drug trafficking, among others.
I assure the General Assembly that Peru will continue to participate constructively and coordinate its efforts with States Members of the United Nations in order to achieve the objectives that motivated the creation of the Organization.


===== Session 75 - 2020 =====
President of the General Assembly,
Secretary-General,
Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
First of all, Mr. President, we wish you every success at the seventy-fifth session of the General Assembly. You can count on Peru’s firm support of the General Assembly in fulfilling your tasks in such a noble leadership role.
In such difficult times for humankind, on behalf of the Government and the people of Peru, let me convey our unequivocal solidarity and sympathy to the people who, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, have lost loved ones, relatives, friends and co-workers, and the front-line actors — doctors, nurses and police and military personnel — who have sacrificed everything, including their own lives. I also pay tribute to and am grateful for those who, far from their families, continue to fight every day to save lives at the risk of losing their own. And we reaffirm our commitment to continue in the joint and unrelenting effort to combat this unprecedented health crisis.
The severity and magnitude of the pandemic and the highly contagious and unknown nature of COVID-10 will not allow for anyone to be safe until we are all safe. I therefore encourage all of us to join the struggle in a concerted and effective manner by recognizing the vaccine and treatment against this virus as global public goods and ensuring timely and equitable access to the medicines and equipment needed to address the pandemic.
It is therefore urgent to reach global agreements on those basic goals. That will strengthen the foundation of the multilateral system and ensure that the commitment we made in 2015 to leave no one behind is fulfilled.
Mr. President,
Two and a half years ago I assumed the Presidency of Peru in accordance the Constitution after my predecessor submitted his resignation before the Congress of the Republic.
Since then, the Peruvian people and my Government have faced together various crises. We have had to combat organized corruption to safeguard democratic governance, and now we are combating the unforeseen and devastating COVID-19 pandemic.
In addressing the latter, our responses have been based on constitutional principles in strict respect for the law and fundamental rights, while taking into account the sense of urgency and the determination of the people.
We have been fighting the scourge of corruption head-on with a set of national reforms to transform the institutions in need of them. In order to support that effort and owing to the transnational nature of the scourge of corruption, together with the Heads of State and Government of countries in the hemisphere at the 2018 Summit of the Americas, we resolutely adopted the declaration, entitled “Lima Commitment: democratic governance against corruption” to expand our obligations and strengthen cooperation on our continent.
Likewise we have promoted together with Colombia and other friendly countries, the convening of a special session of the General Assembly against corruption to be held in June 2021. We advocate the adoption at that session of a clear and action- oriented political declaration that will make international judicial cooperation and assistance more effective, especially with regard to corruption involving large assets, which, among other measures, will encourage the criminalization of corruption in the private sector and among legal entities, among others.
Mr. President,
Any serious governance crisis could be overcome within the constitutional framework by dissolving Congress and calling for elections within the time limits established by law so that citizens could renew their congressional representation in a democratic and transparent manner. Democracy and the separation of powers have been preserved and strengthened through this mechanism in my country.
With the same commitment to the rule of law, national general elections have been called for in April 2021. I will therefore complete my term within the time frame provided for in the Constitution and will hand over my Office to my successor on 28 July 2021 — the date on which Peru will celebrate the bicentennial of its independence.
The lessons learned from this crisis have led my Government to commit to dialogue under the Peru Pact — a democratic space for reflection within the National Agreement forum — to reach consensus among political actors and citizens on five specific issues that will promote a renewed governance agenda in view of our bicentennial of republican life: establishing a unified health system; guaranteeing quality education; promoting economic growth; reforming the justice administration systems; and combating poverty and extreme poverty.
Mr. President,
As it is aware of the historical social gaps and weaknesses in the health-care system, my Government was one of the first in the region to take robust measures to contain the spread of COVID-19. They have saved thousands of lives despite elevated and distressing rates of death and contagion, while allowing for reversing decades of shortfalls with regard to infrastructure and investment in public health. We have fought to contain the disease while, at the same time, strengthening our response capacity.
Six months after the struggle began, the number of people who have been infected with and died from COVID-19 is beginning to drop sharply in Peru, and we are firmly committed to stay the course until the end.
Despite Peru’s macroeconomic strength, the pandemic has deepened inequalities and exposed structural weaknesses caused by the disruption. We are therefore implementing the largest economic containment and recovery plan in our Republic’s history, as well as one of the largest in the region, with an investment equivalent to 20 per cent of the country’s gross domestic product (GDP).
The plan includes bonds, subsidies, liquidity and tax relief measures to sustain family spending, as well as to safeguard employment and the payments chain, thereby benefiting 8.5 million homes and more than 700,000 businesses, 98 per cent of which are micro-, small- and medium-sized businesses.
We have also developed public spending measures to create work to produce and restore 1 million jobs. In addition, we are stepping up various infrastructure projects through Government-to-Government contracting.
Those measures have been decisive in addressing COVID-19 and will support a rapid and safe recovery, with GDP growth estimated at 10 per cent in 2021 and a return to prepandemic levels in 2022.
Mr. President,
In addressing this multidimensional crisis, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development remains the road map, which guides our decisions to overcome challenges made more complex by the pandemic. Such is the case with regard to increasing levels of poverty.
Peru maintains its commitment to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, as stated in the second Voluntary National Review presented here in July, in which we reported on the progress and difficulties in implementing the 2030 Agenda.
Mr. President,
The COVID-19 pandemic is the greatest global challenge that humankind has faced since the end of the Second World War. I am convinced that we must strengthen multilateralism through the United Nations (UN) and WHO, based on lessons learned. That will benefit global health governance and international cooperation to make universal health coverage a reality, as an objective of sustainable development.
In keeping with that commitment, Peru supports the COVAX Facility initiative, the Access to COVID-19 Tools (ACT) Accelerator Facilitation Council, the Vaccine Alliance (GAVI) and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI). We encourage competition in the areas of vaccine and treatment discovery, which will involve researchers, academics, Governments, the pharmaceutical industry, philanthropists, and volunteers, to yield results that will collectively benefit us as global public goods serving all of humankind.
As it is committed to democracy and respect for human rights, Peru will continue to make regional diplomatic efforts with other stakeholders to support the peaceful restoration of democracy and the rule of law in Venezuela, as the first step to overcoming the multidimensional crisis affecting the country. Through its political mechanisms, the United Nations can provide its extremely valuable humanitarian support to contribute to the political resolution of the regional crisis before it becomes a chronic issue, which no one wants to see, especially the Venezuelan people who are suffering from the crisis.
Mr. President,
Peru is particularly vulnerable to climate change. That is why my Government adopted the Framework Law on Climate Change in 2018 and is committed to the national implementation of the Paris Agreement, establishing road maps for 91 adaptation measures and 62 mitigation measures.
The conservation and sustainable use of the Amazon is another priority for my country, including strengthening its resilience and adaptive capacity in addressing climate change and safeguarding the country’s vast biological diversity.
Accordingly, in December 2019, we promoted the presidential summit at which the Leticia Pact was signed, and, a few weeks ago, together with leaders of the Amazon, we adopted the regional plan of action, with an integral vision for combating deforestation and illegal activities, strengthening capacities and including indigenous peoples and local communities in its development.
Mr. President,
As a founding member of the United Nations, Peru has an unwavering commitment to the maintenance of international peace and security, which guided its recent and constructive membership in the Security Council for the period from 2018 to 2019. Accordingly, we support the Secretary-General’s Action for Peacekeeping initiative and his call for a global ceasefire.
Our commitment to the general and complete disarmament of weapons of mass destruction is equally strong. We are part of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons regime and a member of the major international regimes on conventional arms control and nuclear non-proliferation. We are in the process of ratifying the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, as we are convinced that the prohibition of nuclear weapons and tests remains a moral imperative for the planet and humankind.
Mr. President,
Let me conclude on the seventy-fifth anniversary of the United Nations by remembering Ambassador Javier Perez de Cuellar, an illustrious Peruvian, who left us in March. We are filled with pride that this emblem of international diplomacy served as Secretary-General of the Organization for two consecutive terms, which were characterized by a constructive thaw in bipolarity and the resolution of numerous conflicts.
We remember his calls for us to fulfil our obligations based on the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and work collectively for the resolution of our differences. His Pilgrimage For Peace, the title of his memoirs of his leadership in the House, will continue to inspire all to promote peace, sustainable development, protection of the environment, safeguarding human rights and the international rules-based system.
Strengthened multilateralism aimed at sustainable development — as we agreed in the 2030 Agenda — aimed at giving future generations a better world for all will certainly be the best tribute we will be able to pay him.
Many thanks.

===== Session 76 - 2021 =====
The seventy-sixth session of the General Assembly is taking place in a global context marked by instability and uncertainty, rather than by the certainties that our peoples are demanding about the future of the pandemic, peace, security, economic recovery and the reduction of inequality and poverty. The President of the General Assembly bears the heavy responsibility of leading the Assembly in this changing and fragile world. I am confident that his skill, knowledge and experience will lead us to the best decisions and success in our work.
At the same time, we were celebrating the bicentennial of Peru’s independence last 28 July, I assumed the presidency of the Republic in a democratic exercise, in which the Peruvian people, reflecting their sovereign will, voted in favour of social change through macroeconomic stability and sustainable growth. It is the first time in the history of the Peruvian people that a schoolteacher from a rural part of the country, has assumed the leadership of this country and taken responsibility for its destiny. That responsibility binds me to the poor, marginalized and vulnerable populations, as well as to entrepreneurs and the middle classes, which have suffered so much from the pandemic — in short, to all Peruvians, without exception.
Peru is the cradle of one of the many great civilizations that have contributed to the history of humankind. It is a multicultural and multiethnic country, which, through the Government of Peru, is committed to building a society and a State rooted in the people, nurturing social inclusion that eliminates inequalities, injustices and the unfair distribution of wealth, forging a solid democratic society in which freedom and civil rights are guaranteed by a democratic and representative State, and promoting the participation of the people and the country’s subnational, regional and local governments in all decision-making processes that involve their destinies and their lives.
I reaffirm the Peruvian Government’s democratic nature and mission, as well as its commitment to social justice. Our task is not only to strengthen the rule of law and the separation of powers, but also to do so in political life in an effective manner, ensuring that the people can fully exercise their rights on a daily basis. Peru’s economy has been growing for 25 years, and it is one of the strongest in Latin America. Notwithstanding the ravages the pandemic has brought to the national economy and the world, we are going to press on with the responsible and efficient management of the country’s macroeconomic framework in order to continue to expand growth and improve income redistribution.
At the same time, indicators show that there is extreme inequality and exclusion in Peru. This situation compromises the ethical values of democracy and affects the competitiveness of the State and the economy. A social transformation is therefore necessary to allow all Peruvians to enjoy their economic and social rights, as well as their fundamental freedoms and civil and political rights. This transformation must guarantee in every home and to every family their rights to education, health, decent employment and a living wage, social security and housing, as well as
access to an individual, economic and collective life that is respectful of the rights of Mother Earth.
We fully support the historic initiative of Secretary- General Antonio Guterres to set out a “common agenda” that proposes a new social contract for the post-pandemic world. The transformative action of the Peruvian Government is inspired by the same view of the problems at hand, and we have the same will to see a new global social contract adopted. We want to establish a new social pact in Peru, as well — one that ensures democratic governance, peace and social cohesion and manages to drastically reduce poverty, eliminate extreme poverty, lessens inequalities and consigns to the past exclusion and racism as limiting factors to equal access to the State and the market.
For the second year in a row, this general debate is being held against the backdrop of the risks of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, which has claimed the lives of more than 4.5 million brothers and sisters worldwide. The number of people infected exceeded 220 million, including more than 200,000 Peruvians.
Vaccines have opened the way towards restoring humankind’s faith that this battle will be won by humankind. However, the fight against the pandemic has shown us that the international system has been unable to cooperate or uphold the principles of solidarity and efficiency. We need agreements to ensure equity in access to vaccines and vaccination. Multilateral cooperation is still the great absentee in the fight against COVID-19.
The new global agenda initiative should include vigorous and urgent multilateral actions to combat the pandemic and allow all countries, especially the poorest, to have access to vaccines and complementary health coverage. Peru will be an active and dynamic member in the shared endeavour to ensure that all countries have inclusive, equitable and non-discriminatory access to all diagnostic processes, therapies, medicines and vaccines, as well as to the technologies and health products, including their components and precursors, required to respond to COVID-19 as a global priority, including fair access.
Strengthening international scientific cooperation to combat the pandemic must be a top priority. We must reinforce the initiatives that are being developed for this purpose. In view of the foregoing, on behalf of Peru, I would like to propose the signing of a global agreement between the Heads of State and Government and the owners of the relevant patents to guarantee universal access to vaccines for all inhabitants of the planet without discrimination or privilege, which would signal our commitment to the health and life of all peoples.
It is necessary to adapt the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to the new realities of the post-pandemic world. Peru has a national, autonomous, democratic, social and decentralized foreign policy, which is oriented towards cooperation in solidarity with all international actors, State and non-State. To that end, public diplomacy is a priority, as it is now for the United Nations. We are therefore giving special attention to the most urgent of the SDGs in order to reach the neediest and the poorest.
The goal of zero hunger must be the central focus of the international community’s efforts. It is crucial that we redouble our efforts to meet the immediate food needs of all vulnerable populations, stimulate social protection programmes, maintain and increase world trade in food, keep the wheels of national food supply chains in motion, and support the capacity of small- scale producers to expand food production.
We are equally committed to a social development policy that will allow Peru to meet the SDGs, particularly in relation to access to water and sanitation networks, poverty reduction and the elimination of extreme poverty, reduction of infant mortality, full access to the health-care systems, guaranteed inclusive and quality education, gender equality and, especially, employment-generation and improvement of informal employment. Decent employment is the only lasting antidote to poverty. Health, education and access to water and sanitation cannot be for-profit businesses, as they are fundamental human rights that we must guarantee, ensuring universal, quality access without discrimination of any kind.
As a primary school teacher by profession, I must call international attention to the millions of children and adolescents in the world who are out of school, which is a situation that has worsened with the health emergency. I am convinced that society’s ability to overcome the complex challenges that we face depends on the education that our children and our young people receive. Following the severe impact of the pandemic on school education, the Secretary- General’s initiative calling for a new global social
contract should be expressed through an initiative to universalize schooling.
Women and girls make up half of the world’s population. They are a determinant force in the creativity capacity and labour, economic and spiritual potential of all our societies. The new global social pact must take a leap forward in protecting the effective exercise of women’s rights, which are human rights. In addition to their being recognized, they must be effectively realized at the local, regional, national and global levels. We must establish concrete gender equity. We must remove all legal, social and economic obstacles to the empowerment of women and girls. We must fully guarantee their rights and eliminate all social norms and practices that discriminate against women. The Government of Peru is committed to doing so.
Peru therefore aligns its national social development agenda with the priority action and agenda of the United Nations with a view to fulfilling and implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It is time to put the social component at the forefront of international relations and commit ourselves to ensuring that all actions, initiatives and resources of the United Nations system are linked to the fulfilment of the 2030 Agenda. Public diplomacy is not only a national requirement; it is a global imperative.
Human action without respect for nature has led us to question the viability of the planet. The fight against climate change is challenging our consciences. Limiting the temperature increase to between 1.5° and 2.0°C s, a goal set out in the Paris Climate Agreement, is now compromised in its viability. Desertification continues to devastate forests, especially in the Amazon. The effects of climate change are increasingly devastating. The time has come to reconsider our activities so that we can achieve sustainable development in harmony with the planet, with a view to leaving a habitable world for future generations. Moreover, the countries that pollute the most must imperatively comply with the obligations they have assumed.
Peru has set the goals of becoming a carbon-neutral country by 2050 and of reducing greenhouse-gas emissions by 30 to 40 per cent, in line with projections for 2030. As an expression of the Peruvian Government’s commitment to the health of the planet, we will declare a national climate emergency.
This Assembly will once again debate the acute and serious problem of terrorism. Peru has suffered terrorist violence and has been able to overcome it. We condemn and reject terrorism in all its forms. We support all efforts to combat it. We are committed to the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy.
Terrorism has never been and never will be a means for social transformation. Violence only generates destruction and human rights violations, and its victims are the poorest and most dispossessed. Terrorism violates human dignity and is irreconcilable with the values of a democratic society.
At the regional level, Peru is committed to peace and international security, respect for international law and an inclusive agenda.
As a teacher, I am convinced of the power of education. If we do not make the Governments of the world help children, we will have done little or nothing. The present is fragile for global diplomacy, especially for multilateralism. But I believe that our collective will always be the stronger force. I am confident that, through a new global agenda initiative, together we can build a world of peace, friendship, cooperation and well-being for all. As a teacher and a Head of State, I must tell Assembly members: we invest in education because an educated people can never be deceived.


===== Session 77 - 2022 =====
On behalf of the Peruvian people, we warmly congratulate Mr. Csaba Korosi on his election as President of the General Assembly. I am convinced that his broad diplomatic experience and commitment to environmental issues will contribute to the success of our work. I also commend and thank Secretary- General Antonio Guterres for his initiatives to promote more efficient and fairer global governance and for the hard work he is doing in a troubled world that demands strong leadership.
The international situation is complex, difficult and delicate. Strategic balances are shifting, and our peoples are concerned about the worsening context with regard to peace, the environment and the international economic situation. The world is moving dangerously towards situations of confrontation and opposed interests, which are creating serious tensions that are unprecedented in history.
Peru reaffirms its firm position in defence of the principle of non-aggression and respect for the territorial integrity of States. We reiterate that Russian Federation’s intervention in Ukraine is illegitimate, as well as our condemnation of Israel’s ongoing occupation of Palestinian and Arab territories since 1967. The selective application the Charter of the United Nations is not conducive to peace. All armed interventions are in violation of the Charter — there is no such thing as good or bad interventions. Similarly, all sanctions, other than those approved by the Security Council as part of its actions to preserve peace and security, are illegitimate and contrary to international law. I repeat, all other types of unilateral sanctions, including economic sanctions, are illegitimate and contrary to international law.
When a war or aggression breaks out, it is the duty of the international community to work towards a ceasefire and a peaceful settlement of the conflict through diplomatic negotiations. We must not encourage conflict but rather make peace our mission. Peru therefore once again reiterates the need for a ceasefire in Ukraine. We call for enhancing the protection of civil society affected by the conflict and for negotiations to be launched in order to find a peaceful solution that takes the interests of all parties into account. At the same time, we need to ensure that the agreement enabling the export of grain from Ukraine continues and, as the Secretary-General has pointed out, make arrangements to normalize Russian fertilizer exports, the shortage of which is burdening the poorest farmers in the developing world. It is crucial to prevent economic sanctions from affecting food security. Ultimately, it is a matter of ensuring respect for the human right to food.
Regarding the question of Palestine, whose territories witnessed a surge of violence a few months ago, it is also essential for the international community to shoulder its responsibilities once and for all and support peace negotiations geared towards finding a solution based on recognizing both States — an independent and viable Palestine and an Israel with secure borders. That is the only way to secure a lasting peace. The Government of Peru will soon open a diplomatic outpost in Palestine, in full compliance with the principle of universality of diplomatic relations.
Given the context of instability and the fact that we are losing the capacity to use consensus and diplomatic negotiations to transform centres of conflict into peacebuilding situations, it is essential to take a leap forward in strengthening and expanding the peacekeeping operations of the United Nations. At the request of my Government, Peru has nearly doubled its number of military personnel in six peacekeeping missions around the world, especially in the peacemaking and stabilization process in the Central African Republic. We are also committed to making short-term police contributions.
Just a few days ago, in Lima, I opened the first Latin American and Caribbean Conference on Peacekeeping Operations on the theme “Living in Peace”. The convening of the Conference demonstrates a determined push to increase the participation of Latin America and the Caribbean in United Nations peacekeeping operations, in accordance with the principles of consent of the parties, impartiality and the non-use of force, except in legitimate self-defence. More importantly, the Lima Conference made the decision to establish a Latin American and Caribbean network for cooperation in peacekeeping operations. Peru is committed to ensuring the immediate set-up and launch of the network. Latin America, which played a decisive role in establishing the United Nations, must, through solidarity and joint action, step up its contribution to conflict resolution and peace. That is its historical tradition.
In that regard, my Government will be ramping up the consultations to establish South America as a zone of international peace. As indicated in the preamble to the UNESCO constitution, since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defence of peace must be constructed. Building the values of peace in the minds of men means respecting others, protecting human rights and not exploiting the weakest, as well as promoting dialogue and the peaceful settlement of disputes. But above all, it means eradicating — as the United Nations systematically does, with the permanent support of Peru — hateful ideologies, racism, intolerance, xenophobia and anti-Semitism. Peace, on the other hand, requires us to acknowledge that humankind has a common destiny.
Acting responsibly to build that common future means respecting the principle of non-intervention and, at the same time, showing solidarity with the poor, the weak, the dispossessed and the vulnerable. Acting responsibly to build that common future means respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms; civil and political rights; economic, social and cultural rights; the collective rights of peoples and the rights
of indigenous peoples. States have a duty not only to guarantee their peoples’ freedom but also to ensure that they can enjoy the social rights that underpin human dignity, including the human rights to education, health, housing, water, food, a living wage and, thanks to the General Assembly, the human right to a clean, healthy and sustainable environment.
Peacebuilding also involves fulfilling the mandate to resolve the still-pending situation of colonial peoples and territories. Peru fought for its independence in the early nineteenth century based on the principle of self- determination of peoples. Peru’s diplomacy since 1947 has therefore firmly supported and continues to support granting independence and self-determination to the territories and peoples that are under the mandate of the United Nations to ensure their independence.
Peru has re-established diplomatic relations with the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic and firmly supports its right to self-determination. The actions to be taken by the Special Representative of the Secretary- General to re-establish the ceasefire in the Western Sahara and promote a negotiated and peaceful solution have our widest support. In the same vein, Peru fully recognizes the Argentina’s sovereignty rights of the over the Malvinas Islands and urges the parties to begin consultations and negotiations in order to realize that crucial objective.
The international economic situation is becoming dire. The pandemic’s negative effects on production processes and, especially, the deterioration it has entailed in the living standards of the poor and extremely poor majorities, as well as the problems it has created in the regularization of supply chains, inflation and rising energy prices, are unleashing a major world crisis, which will cause more poverty and exclusion.
Global growth indicators are not encouraging; indeed, global growth is declining. Latin America is suffering the negative effects of inflation and the decline of economic growth. It is also struggling to restore its efforts to combat poverty and extreme poverty to their pre-pandemic levels. The region has increasingly high rates of debt that are difficult to sustain.
In order to address those global and regional trends, which are affecting opportunities for potential growth, Peru has adopted a plan to boost economic growth known as Impulso Peru. Our definitive goal is, in all cases, to grow the economy by 3.3 per cent above the average target for Latin America. We are convinced that our most important objective should be to create more better-quality jobs, and to that end, we are promoting and improving conditions for national and foreign investment. The plan also makes special considerations for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Peru is a country with stable and positive macroeconomic variables, an economy open to private and public investment for the benefit of those who need it most.
Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has raised the need for a new global social compact. That new commitment needs to be linked to the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals, which are now seriously compromised. We need to reaffirm our political will to ensure that the United Nations development system, within the framework of all its agencies, prioritizes achieving the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development goals in the most critical areas of our times, including the reduction by half the proportion of people living in poverty; eradicating extreme poverty; making zero hunger a reality to provide food security for all families; achieving efficient and universal health coverage for all; ensuring that all boys and girls complete free, equitable and quality primary and secondary education; ending all forms of discrimination against women and girls worldwide; achieving universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all; and progressively achieving and sustaining income growth for the poorest 40 per cent of the population at a rate higher than the national average.
We need to ensure the strength and effectiveness of the new global compact by renewing our commitment to focusing our political will and financial resources on meeting the 2030 Agenda goals. The 2030 Agenda is not only a programme for peace, justice and equality at the global level; it is also on essential part of our national agendas.
This year, extreme heat and flooding have reached record-high levels as a result of climate change. Greenhouse gas concentrations continue to rise. Those are Mother Earth’s warning calls for us end our assault on nature. I call especially on the industrialized nations to give a new impetus to curbing global warming. As Heads of State, we must acknowledge that our targets for meeting our commitments to reducing new emissions already need to be seven times higher in order to achieve our goal of keeping the planet’s temperature from rising more than 1.5°C. The United Nations has
reaffirmed its support for protecting the rights and lives of environmental defenders and for ensuring access to information on the environment for citizens and indigenous peoples.
The Regional Agreement on Access to Information, Public Participation and Justice in Environmental Matters in Latin America and the Caribbean, known as the Escazu Agreement, which Peru has signed, reflects the efforts of the peoples of Latin America to implement the General Assembly’s historic resolution 76/300, on recognizing environmental rights as human rights. The Escazu Agreement is an instrument to affirm our sovereignty over natural resources in the Amazon.
The oceans also require urgent compacts to preserve marine life and ecosystems and their biodiversity. Peru supports negotiations for a treaty to regulate fishing activities and eradicate pollution of the seas beyond 200 miles from their coasts. We firmly reiterate our claim to our maritime zone up to 200 miles, as established in our Constitution.
Latin America has a democratic tradition, yet it also has the highest levels of social inequality. But the Latin American peoples continue to move forward with the historical strength of the justness of their cause in the search for fairer, more egalitarian societies with greater social cohesion, where the common good is for all and there is no exclusion. That is the path we are on in Peru.
Democracy by its very nature involves conflicting political positions. That is what freedom is all about. But democratic governance requires respect for institutions and, above all, for the will of the people. Coups d’etat, regardless of how they are orchestrated or the power of the States promoting them, are illegitimate. They are an attack on the sovereign expression of the will of the people. In the same way we address external crises, any crisis of governance or confrontation involving the powers of the State must be resolved through dialogue, agreement and full respect for the electoral results. The Inter-American Democratic Charter, Peru’s contribution to democracy in the Americas, emphatically establishes that principle.
In a world where both tendencies to conflict and internal political crises are increasing, we need four pillars for defending democratic governance: respect for peoples, willingness to resolve conflicts through negotiation, respect for human rights and respect for the institution of the rule of law.
I am Head of State of a multi-ethnic and multicultural country whose development of high civilizations dates back more than 3,000 years, and which has also faced difficulties in eliminating racism and social inequality. My Government reflects the demands, hopes and dreams of those who have had nothing or very little to help them integrate into civic life as actors in their own destiny. Peru’s social inclusion agenda mirrors the new social compact that the United Nations wants for all the peoples of the world.
It is an agenda that prioritizes the principle of leaving no one behind, as well as inclusion that benefits all people, especially the poorest and most vulnerable — for a world for all.

===== Session 78 - 2023 =====
I come from Peru, a country with a vast history and cultural wealth, which has been the cradle of civilization in our America, and whose leadership I assumed with firmness and courage on 7 December 2022. facing a coup d’etat in the midst of a political and social crisis that we have been able to overcome within the framework of our Constitution.
Today, as I have the honour of being the first constitutional female President of the Republic in the 201 years of its existence, and of leading my country’s delegation to the General Assembly. I am grateful for the recognition of the international community. Peru is once again on the world stage alongside the people of the world.
I am a provincial woman, a Quechua speaker born in the heights of the southern Peruvian Andes, and I lead a Government that, within the framework of the law and in the face of difficult challenges, both from nature and on the international stage, has restored stability and hope to a country that seeks economic development with social justice.
First of all. this message serves to pay well-deserved tribute to women, girls and adolescents, especially Peruvian women. As we say in Quechua. Amana warmi maqay kachunchu. I tell the world: No more violence against women.
Peru is a country that respects democracy, the rule of law. human rights and international law. That is why it actively promotes Latin American integration and is firmly committed to cooperation among countries. Peru promotes peace, and to achieve that peace it is necessary to apply the Charter of the United Nations in all circumstances. For that reason, we reaffirm and defend the principle of respect for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and independence of all States.
As a daughter of the southern Andean region of my country. I have known first-hand the suffering caused by poverty. Therefore. I am fully aware that, as we reaffirmed in the political declaration we adopted yesterday.
“eradicating poverty. . . is the greatest global challenge and an indispensable requirement for sustainable development” (A/HLPF/2023/L.1, para. 3).
That is the main objective of my Government, and that is why we are committed to the implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Today in this forum. I want to reaffirm Peru’s voice so that the international community gives the highest priority to eradicating poverty. It is a commitment that we cannot and must not abandon. In Peru, we are adopting policies to confront not only monetary poverty but also multidimensional poverty, promoting, among other important actions, access to drinking water and basic sanitation. In nine months of management, we have unblocked more than 100 paralysed projects, which will provide water to the sisters and brothers of my country. The crises caused by the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic, climate change, growing geopolitical tensions, armed conflicts and increased food prices are overwhelming our people and have stymied our potential for growth and development.
If those trends continue, as Secretary-General Antonio Guterres tells us. almost 600 million people will continue to live in extreme poverty in 2030. and only a third of countries will reach the goal of halving their national poverty levels. We cannot accept that scenario. The time has come — either we progress together, or we condemn ourselves as a whole. United, everything; disunited, we all lose.
That brings us to a next challenge. Our development agenda has the motto Man an pitapas qipapi saqispa. which in our Quechua means “leaving no one behind”. However, today millions of human beings move, sometimes literally, carrying their families and their scant belongings, in search of well-being or simply survival, in the face of conflict, unemployment and extreme poverty. The current situation of human mobility requires bilateral, regional and multilateral 
cooperation. In that regard. Peru has been making enormous efforts, but it will be only through international cooperation that we will be able to achieve safe, orderly and regular migration.
Health has already shown us that it is a problem not for a mere few. but for everyone. My country was one of the hardest hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, which claimed the lives of more than 200.000 compatriots and revealed the gaps and shortcomings of our health system. This year, we have faced resurgences of the dengue, measles and polio epidemics, as well as the outbreak of Guillain-Barre syndrome.
My Government is therefore firmly committed to guaranteeing access to comprehensive health care, free and universal to all. without exception. To achieve that, we are improving the coverage of the national vaccine scheme and reinforcing health infrastructure and equipment. We have been able to vaccinate more than 1.900.000 girls and boys, from the ages of two months to five years, against polio and measles, and we continue tirelessly to unblock hospital projects paralysed by apathy and corruption, which is another scourge besetting my country. In addition, we have made the prevention and treatment of cancer a national objective and twenty of the twenty-six regions of Peru now have at least one oncological service. It is possible to work when the political will is there.
In those areas, international cooperation must ensure quality health goods and services accessible to all. and mainly for developing countries, where the gaps are much wider. In Peru, we observe with concern the growing internationalization of criminal networks fuelled by the corruption of past Governments, which have undermined the credibility of institutions and democracy, affecting the development and well-being of our citizens.
It is therefore urgent to reinforce our joint work. We cannot let our guard down against crime, organized crime and drug trafficking. Those problems affect us all and we must all be part of the solution. Our children and grandchildren are at risk of experiencing the hell that a triple environmental crisis would bring, now that we are entering the era of “global boiling”, as the Secretary-General has called it.
Climate change, the loss of biodiversity and pollution are putting our very existence as humankind at risk. In Peru, we are facing it with a sense of urgency and determination. Early in the year, heavy rains affected northern Peru, which were followed by the onslaught of Cyclone Yaku. In the south, droughts and frosts seriously harmed people, agriculture and livestock, added to recurring anomalous waves in the Pacific, which hinder the regular operations of our fishing ports. Finally, we have the growing threat of the coastal El Nino phenomenon, which will be followed by the impact of the global El Nino. An action approach with preventive measures is urgently needed. Therefore, from this high rostrum. I call for solidarity and international cooperation. For the first time, an administration in my country has undertaken a major action campaign against global El Nino with an investment of 4 billion soles, equivalent to more than $1 billion. We have also joined the Early Alerts for All initiative, presented by the Secretary-General, so that, by the end of 2027. all the inhabitants of the planet will be protected against meteorological phenomena. That will save many lives.
In addition. I allow myself today to propose a pact, a commitment to cooperation and international action for immediate attention to the impact of meteorological phenomena such as El Nino; a pact based on solidarity, resilience and interdependence. Today it is Peru that has to face El Nino; tomorrow nature may be cruel to another destiny, but in unity, as we always say in my country, we can move forward. Let us make this pact a pact for the world, a pact for life!
Developing countries have made progress in reducing carbon emissions, but we continue to be the most affected by climate disasters. Last month, the eight Amazonian countries held a presidential summit, at which we agreed on measures for the conservation and sustainable use of the Amazon, the fight against deforestation and urgent action to avoid the point of no return. There. Peru presented its vision of the Amazon with a human face — “with a human face” because the Amazon, which constitutes 61 per cent of Peru’s surface, is not a sanctuary occupied solely by nature. It is home to almost 5 million Peruvians.
It is still possible to limit the increase in global temperature to within 1.5°C. as we proposed in the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, but strong actions will be necessary. That will require developed countries not only to adopt more ambitious emissions reduction goals, but also to honour their commitments in technology transfer and climate financing. Today more than ever, it is urgent to mobilize the $100 billion annually that have been committed to climate action 
in developing countries, as well as to establish the loss and damage fund agreed upon at the twenty-seventh Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Here at United Nations Headquarters. I wish to report that the Peruvian presidency has already delivered a draft agreement aimed at protecting the marine environment against plastic pollution.
In my country. 48 indigenous languages are spoken, and more than 6 million citizens identify themselves as members of one of the indigenous or native peoples of Peru, and more than 800.000 as Afro- Peruvians. Promoting the full exercise of their rights is a challenge that we share with many countries, and our essential task is to continue seeking their inclusion and well-being, providing them with quality services and promoting respect for their rights, their cultures and their languages.
On the verge of commemorating the bicentennial of our consolidation as an independent Republic. Peru renews its commitment to continuing to contribute to peace, international development and care for the environment. We have done so during our presidency of the Andean Community, we are doing so in the Pacific Alliance, and we will continue to do so next year as President of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum. We remain firm in our process of accession to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and in our participation in the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity, and we have begun our approach to the Association of Southeast Asian Nations with a view to being partners in development.
I therefore reiterate my invitation to all countries and their economies to continue investing and trusting in Peru. Peru is a country of hope. In my country, we await partners with clear and transparent rules of the game, with stability and legal security, with low inflation, with solid international reserves and with the sole objective of working for the sustained growth of all. but especially of the most vulnerable.
The Government of Peru, faithful to its commitment to the United Nations linked to its republican tradition, joins with determination and firmness the global purpose to consolidate the global fight against climate change and to defend peace, democracy, unrestricted respect for human rights, international law. sustainable development and the prosperity to which our peoples aspire, as it is based on justice.
Kuska Uancasum, huk sonccollay, huk umalla, huk miinaylla, which means. “Let us work together, with one heart, one thought and one desire”.


===== Session 79 - 2024 =====
Mr President of the United Nations General Assembly,  
Distinguished delegates of the nations of the world,

1. I have the privilege of addressing this General Assembly, bringing the special and respectful greetings of the Constitutional President of the Republic, Dr Dina Boluarte Zegarra, who would have wished to be here and speak before this great universal Assembly.

2. I am honoured to convey the voice of my fellow Peruvians—women and men who, through their daily efforts, aspire to a life of dignity and to leaving behind a promising future for their children.

3. Like the rest of the world, Peru has strived tirelessly to mitigate the harmful effects of political instability and the economic crisis resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, which exacted a severe cost on Peruvian society, especially its most vulnerable sectors.

4. That is why President Boluarte’s government is working tirelessly to restore economic growth, unlock stalled projects, and attract foreign investment for the development of major infrastructure works capable of generating decent and high-quality employment, thereby directly contributing to national development. Today, we can already see the first results of these efforts, and Peru is back on the path of growth and stability.

5. We still have a long road ahead. Peru and all countries face a series of shared challenges that we can only overcome through international cooperation and harmonised efforts. That is why Peru reiterates its commitment to **multilateralism**, which remains the best tool we have to collectively create the conditions necessary to achieve sustainable development.

---

**[INTERNATIONAL PEACE AND SECURITY]**

6. The first of these conditions is **peace**.

7. The nations that founded this organisation after the Second World War did so to “save succeeding generations from the scourge of war.” The current reality shows that we are failing in this fundamental purpose.

8. Peru **condemns any use of force in international relations**. Aggression and the acquisition of territory by force are contrary to the UN Charter and international law. They also undermine the legitimacy and effectiveness of our collective security system.

9. The paralysis of the **Security Council** in some conflicts and the application of **biases and double standards** in others remind us of the urgent need to **reform the Council** and reconsider the prerogatives of its Permanent Members, particularly the **veto power**, which is sometimes used for political motives rather than humanitarian concerns.

Mr President,

10. From this General Assembly, Peru will continue taking **concrete actions in favour of peace**. We will keep supporting arms control regimes, disarmament initiatives, and nuclear non-proliferation. We remain committed to the **total elimination of nuclear weapons**, and we reject any testing, use, or threat of their use. While we hope for a verifiable international disarmament process, we urge nuclear-armed states to **resume bilateral commitments**, such as the **New START Treaty**.

11. On the ground, Peru will continue contributing to **UN peacekeeping operations**, as we have done since 1958, with over 10,000 personnel having served. Currently, more than 250 members of our **Armed Forces and National Police** are deployed under the UN flag, serving with professionalism, courage, and dedication. We have also made available a **Rapid Reaction Force** of 200 troops ready for immediate deployment wherever and whenever required by the UN.

12. Peru recognises the critical role of **women in the peace and security agenda**. We are pleased to report that we have **surpassed the targets** set by the UN's 2018–2028 Gender Parity Strategy for uniformed personnel and will continue increasing the percentage of Peruvian women deployed in peacekeeping missions.

---

**[ENVIRONMENT AND DISASTER RISK MANAGEMENT]**

Mr President,

13. The second condition for development is a **clean and healthy environment**.

14. Climate change, biodiversity loss, and pollution are **interconnected threats** that endanger the survival of current and future generations.

15. Peru’s high vulnerability to the effects of climate change makes it a **top priority** of our foreign policy. Alongside other countries, we have **requested an advisory opinion from the International Court of Justice** on states’ international obligations regarding climate change.

16. Last year, Peru was struck by **Cyclone Yaku** and the **El Niño phenomenon**, which caused loss of life and severe material damage. I express our gratitude to the **United Nations system** for supporting our government's response.

17. Aware of the growing frequency and severity of these phenomena due to climate change, my government has adopted a **preventive approach** to disaster risk management, aligned with the Secretary-General’s **“Early Warnings for All”** initiative and the **Sendai Framework**.

18. We are also updating our **National Climate Change Strategy** to achieve **carbon neutrality by 2050**, and we are promoting a shift to a **low-carbon economy** based on **clean and renewable energy**.

19. However, these national efforts are **not enough**. We must increase **international cooperation** while adhering to the principle of **common but differentiated responsibilities** in climate action.

20. Developed countries must adopt **more ambitious emission reduction targets** and fulfil their **climate finance commitments**, including the mobilisation of at least **$100 billion annually** for developing countries and implementation of the **loss and damage fund** agreed at **COP27**. It is also urgent to ensure funding for the **Green Climate Fund (GCF)**, which has supported our adaptation and mitigation efforts.

---

**[SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND INCLUSION]**

Mr President,

21. Our **main challenge** is to ensure **development** for our people. We have the **2030 Agenda** and **Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)** to guide us. Unfortunately, the latest UN report shows we are **off track**.

22. Peru is committed to the 2030 Agenda. We have increased by **over 10%** the resources allocated to SDG implementation. I highlight our progress in **three priority areas**: health, education, and social protection.

**[HEALTH]**

23. Faced with **Latin America’s worst dengue outbreak**, Peru took swift action, halving the lethality rate compared to the previous epidemic. We are updating our **prevention and control strategies** in line with WHO guidelines.

**[EDUCATION]**

24. To provide **quality education**, we are prioritising **teacher training** and strengthening **technical education** at secondary and tertiary levels to improve youth employment. We have launched an **ambitious investment programme** to close infrastructure gaps.

**[SOCIAL PROTECTION]**

25. The third priority is **social protection for development**.

26. We have **increased funding** for the **Food Assistance Programme**, which supports vulnerable groups through community kitchens and shelters, coordinated with local governments, the private sector, and civil society. We are also boosting **agricultural productivity and sustainability**, especially through **family farming**.

27. Peru runs **numerous social programmes** to combat poverty and social exclusion, alongside **public policies** for **women’s and girls’ empowerment** and protection from **gender-based violence**, including economic autonomy initiatives.

28. Our social protection framework includes the fight against **discrimination and racism**, and guarantees the **collective rights of Indigenous peoples and Afro-Peruvians**, as well as the delivery of services with an **intercultural approach**—in recognition of Peru’s **multicultural, multi-ethnic, and multilingual identity**.

---

**[FINANCING FOR DEVELOPMENT]**

29. As I’ve said, **national efforts alone are not enough**. Developed countries must honour their **aid and financing commitments** to help close the budget gaps for addressing our many needs.

30. We must push for **urgent reform of the international financial architecture** to create a more **inclusive and equitable system**. To do so, we need to rethink how we **measure progress**, moving beyond the narrow indicator of **GDP**, which does not reflect inequality, wellbeing, or environmental sustainability.

31. We therefore welcome the inclusion in the **Pact for the Future** of an initiative to develop **new multidimensional progress indicators**, to better guide international cooperation—ensuring that **middle-income countries** like Peru, where pockets of poverty and exclusion still exist, are included in financing flows.

---

**[POVERTY AND ANNOUNCEMENT OF RESOLUTION]**

Mr President,

32. The fight against **poverty in all its forms and dimensions**, including **extreme poverty**, remains the world’s greatest challenge and must be our **highest priority**.

33. In Peru, we are implementing programmes such as **JUNTOS**, **PENSIÓN 65**, and **CONTIGO** to reduce **monetary and extreme poverty**, especially caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, and to deliver basic social inclusion services to underserved sectors.

34. I wish to announce that Peru will present, as it does every two years, a **draft resolution titled “Human Rights and Extreme Poverty”**, encouraging Member States to adopt **more ambitious social protection policies**, since extreme poverty and exclusion undermine **human dignity**.

---

**[NEW TECHNOLOGIES]**

Mr President,

35. We also face new challenges from the **rise of new technologies**, whose opportunities come with risks and unprecedented **ethical and moral dilemmas**.

36. **Social media**, while connecting us, has also been used to **spread disinformation and hate speech**, and to perpetrate **violence and harassment**, especially against women.

37. **Tech companies** store personal data of millions, raising concerns about **privacy rights** and the dangers of **mass surveillance** by governments.

38. **Artificial Intelligence**, while offering benefits, has also enabled **disinformation campaigns** aimed at manipulating public opinion—especially during elections—thus **destabilising democracies**.

39. We have a **collective responsibility** to ensure that new technologies are developed and used in full respect of **human dignity, freedom, and rights**. Clear principles and **regulatory frameworks for digital governance** are essential. We therefore welcome the adoption yesterday of the **Global Digital Compact**.

---

**[HUMAN RIGHTS AND DEMOCRACY]**

Mr President,

40. Peru’s **commitment to human rights and democracy** is unwavering. These are the fundamental values that underpin Peruvian society and guide our foreign policy.

41. Peru has a long tradition of promoting and respecting human rights, demonstrated by our participation in numerous treaties and our cooperation with the UN and other international organisations, who have always had full access to our country.

42. The **strong democratic conviction** of the Peruvian people drives our foreign policy in **defence of representative democracy in the Americas**, and **against attempts to undermine the popular will**.

43. The **absence of freedom and democratic political participation**, coupled with **repression and lack of opportunity**, drives **mass migration and refugee flows**, putting pressure on host countries—especially those lacking economic capacity. That is why we reaffirm our commitment to an effective, **legally binding global framework for migration**, based on a **human rights and people-centred approach** that provides **predictability and protection** against **transnational criminal organisations involved in trafficking and smuggling**.

44. These foreign policy principles inform Peru’s **grave concern over the situation in Venezuela** following the 28 July electoral process. The officially declared results have failed to meet Venezuela’s legal obligation to transparently and impartially disclose original vote tally sheets, and therefore do not legitimately reflect the popular will. Peru **cannot recognise these official results**.

---

**[CLOSING]**

Mr President,

45. Throughout its history, Peru has maintained a foreign policy firmly committed to **multilateralism**, **international law**, and the **peaceful resolution of disputes**—principles enshrined in the UN Charter.

46. This tradition is exemplified by the contributions of renowned Peruvians such as **Víctor Andrés Belaúnde**, President of this Assembly; **José Luis Bustamante y Rivero**, President of the International Court of Justice (1967–1970); and **Javier Pérez de Cuéllar**, the fifth **UN Secretary-General**, who remains an inspiration for our diplomatic corps.

47. In this era of growing scepticism toward multilateralism, that legacy calls on us to remain active in promoting **effective multilateralism**, which is essential to our joint response to major global challenges—ensuring international peace and security, protecting the environment, mitigating climate change, financing sustainable development, and regulating emerging technologies.

48. **Mr President, you can count on Peru’s full support** in forging the global consensus we need to move forward together.

**Thank you very much.**