

===== Session 01 - 1946 =====
For the second time this year the representatives of the United Nations are meeting in the General Assembly to continue with a firm and determined step along that path of which peace-loving peoples never lost sight even in times of great peril.
We are again met together for the purpose of ensuring the slow but sure development of an international organization which was conceived on the field of battle, amid the noise of conflict and the fearful destruction wrought by total war, in the spirit of a philosophy of unity and mutual aid, of the redemption of the spiritual forces of mankind, and of sacrifice and mutual understanding between the nations.
Such an organization was definitely decided upon — even before total victory over the forces of aggression — in order to defend this philosophy and to guarantee international peace and collective security to all the peoples of the world, and in order to achieve the abolition of fear and distress and the real enjoyment of liberty, not only in the internal life of every country, but also as a noble and sacred birthright of all men.
Dumbarton Oaks, San Francisco and London marked three distinct and characteristic stages in the historic development of the United Nations. The formulation of the fundamental principles, and the extensive public debate thereon, the final drafting and entry into force of the Charter, its transformation into an effective reality by the establishment of the bodies provided for therein, and the initiation of its first activities express, in terms of work done, the significance of these three symbolic names.
Today, the name of the State of New York, which has so graciously and generously welcomed our young Organization, is added to those names as a guarantee of success, as an earnest of the co-operation and goodwill of America and of the spirit of loyalty of this friendly people, who today more than ever understand and admit the mistakes of the past and solemnly promise us, through their most authoritative representative, that they prepared to support the United Nations by all the means in their power, urbi et orbi.
The seat of the international body has been transferred from the Old Continent to the so-called New World, and that event, which was dictated by the will of the nations represented here, has a special historical connotation. It seems that destiny, after the collapse of the Treaty of Versailles, was prepared to give mankind another chance to establish peaceful relations between the peoples, and to confer on this American land the privilege of lending its atmosphere of tolerance and harmony in order that the peoples might be able to develop the activities and realize fully the essential purposes of their Organization.
The fundamental task of winning and preserving the peace for our children and for future generations as well as for ourselves confronts us. Let us then dedicate ourselves to it with fervour and optimism. Let us learn the lessons of yesterday and maintain unity and solidarity in order to achieve permanent peace, just as we did in those tragic days when events presaged the absolute suppression of law and order and the triumph of an absurd policy of aggression and universal hegemony.
Let us have faith in the exalted destinies of the human race. Let us reject the idea that war is inevitable in international relations, and let us draw on our spiritual forces to combat destructive scepticism and all other negative attitudes in every sphere of society. Let us remember that it proved possible to overcome and conquer one by one all the apparently insurmountable obstacles which stood in the way of the final triumph of the liberating armies, and let us be confident that, by the same determination and firmness of purpose, international differences, however great they may be, can be overcome, and that present and future difficulties can be solved.
To that end it will be indispensable for statesmen to proceed serenely and dispassionately to consider the interests involved, without placing their own interests before those of others, but subordinating both to the superior interests of the international community. They will have to work in an atmosphere of mutual trust, and in certain circumstances more account will have to be taken of the freely expressed wishes of their respective peoples, in order that the solutions which are reached shall have the support of those peoples as well as that of the Governments and of the United Nations.
Statements from the heads of Governments are, as we have been able to observe in the past few days, of great importance in dispelling confusion and insecurity; they contribute towards restoring lost faith and calming anguished fears of the recurrence of the terrible events of tragic violence which are still intensely alive in the hearts of all. The declarations of Marshal Stalin and Prime Minister Attlee have already had beneficial results; they have been fortified and consolidated by the categorical assertion made by President Truman in this hall to the effect that there is no danger of war and that the fears which are casting their shadow over the great work of building up the peace must be removed.
The collaboration of the press — the fourth estate of the realm — constitutes a further element of essential importance if political activities and international negotiations are to develop with a minimum of obstruction. Freedom of information and publicity of the proceedings of international conferences are indispensable, in order to avoid any policy which may tend to distort or obscure the truth.
It is also essential, however, to renounce all campaigns tending to exaggerate disagreements between the States, and to insist, on the contrary, upon the presentation of constructive news. In other words, the settlement of disputes and the achievement of positive results call for equal or even greater attention than do the friction and difficulties which still remain, pending some arrangement or procedure appropriate for their settlement. Thus a contribution will be made towards the peaceful and democratic orientation of public opinion: thus it will be possible for the peoples to form a well-founded and exact idea of the situations which may jeopardize international peace and security.
At the same time, we consider it essential that close unity be established between the great Powers, for the San Francisco Charter is undoubtedly based on that sine qua non condition. That is not sufficient in itself, however, for the triumph of our efforts towards peace and reconstruction. All nations, large or small, strong or weak, must march together and collaborate with one another, conscious of the role which it behoves them to play according to their means. A contrary course would be tantamount, as I stated on an occasion which for me is a memorable one, to provoking the revival of imperialism, of economic nationalism and of balance of power policies with all their anarchical consequences; to accepting the principle of unilateral action and the imposition of an autocratic will on the sincere wishes for real, spontaneous and effective co-operation of the majority of the peoples; to ensuring the total failure of collective security, which, as its name implies, cannot exist except within a universal organization on the basis of juridical equality; to forgetting the sacrifices of the multitudes who gave their lives for the democratic cause. In a word, such a course would be tantamount to precipitating the division of the world into two camps and the unleashing of passions and of irreconcilable hatreds, which might lead to a new apocalyptic armed conflict thereby completely destroying our civilization and our culture, and drowning in an ocean of blood the ideals of peace and of justice for which mankind is so deeply longing.
Forgive me if I continue to abuse your patience, but I cannot conclude our intervention in the general discussion without dwelling on another factor which is disturbing the smooth working of the United Nations, and is helping to prolong the uneasiness which is felt with regard to the possibilities of success. I wish to refer more precisely to the continued existence of the regime which is subjugating the Spanish people and preventing it, with its admirable legal heritage and its well-known tradition of international solidarity and cooperation, from joining the family of democratic nations.
As indicated by the Secretary-General, Mr. Trygve Lie, the Spanish question has received the attention of various organs of the United Nations, but they have not yet managed to reach a satisfactory solution of a state of affairs which should no longer exist, now that the forces of aggression which created it have been destroyed.
Therefore, our delegation, interpreting the feelings of the people and Government of Venezuela, which, a year ago, took up a definite position internationally with regard to this matter, is of the opinion that the United Nations is under an obligation to find, without delay, a way to prevent this seed of discord from growing into a dangerous neo-totalitarianism capable of threatening the international order which we propose to establish and defend.
Finally, I wish to refer to the so-called veto question. The responsibility of the permanent Members of the Security Council in relation to the exercise of the right of veto is one of the most important which they have incurred vis-a- vis the other United Nations, for by reason of circumstances and of their special position, they have been granted, in order to defend the peace and to support our Organization, a privilege which is scarcely compatible with the principle of the sovereign equality of all nations. The responsibility of the permanent members of the Security Council is all the greater since no change can be made in the Charter without a favourable vote on their part. That being so, and in view of the manner in which the Article embodying the right of veto has been applied, the alternative facing the permanent members is obvious. If they are not willing to give up that privilege because they consider that present conditions do not allow of such a step, they are under an inescapable moral obligation to reach agreement among themselves to determine the exact scope of the right of veto and obviate any abuse of its application.
For that reason the delegation of Venezuela, being convinced of the sense of duty and the sincerity of the permanent Members of the Security Council, urgently appeals to them, pending the amendment of the United Nations Charter, to take the initiative, as holders of that privilege, in formulating in a Protocol which might be called the Protocol of Flushing, the necessary rules for limiting the use of the right of veto, in the certainty that by taking this course they will render an incalculable service to the cause of peace.

===== Session 02 - 1947 =====
We have hardly reached the second anniversary of the inception of the United Nations and already its highest deliberative body has assembled for the fourth time to expedite the creation of the new world of peace and co-operation referred to by the San Francisco Charter. The tasks performed since then by the various bodies of the Organization have been many and fruitful, so that it may be said that the United Nations has passed the organizational stage and reached a maturity which qualifies it to perform its precise mission of promoting the political, economic, social and cultural welfare of all peoples.
The information contained in the report submitted to this Assembly by the Secretary-General, Mr. Trygve Lie, is the most eloquent proof of the progress achieved through this Organization in constructive internationalism.
The General Assembly has considered many difficult matters and, for the first time, it held a special session on the Palestine question. Its recommendations have not remained purely theoretical, for some of them have already resulted in the creation of new organs of co-operation necessary for solving the urgent problems of the time, such as that of refugees and displaced persons.
The recommendations regarding the establishment of the Atomic Energy Commission, disarmament, the regulation and reduction of armaments, the application of the unanimity rule provided for in Article 27 of the Charter, the reconstruction of devastated areas, the development and codification of international law and so many others of which you are aware, are of vital importance. In the course of its discussions the Assembly has applied the principle of the sovereign equality of all nations, and its moral authority has been recognized in such a manner as to permit full, free and objective discussion, in an atmosphere that has oriented public opinion and often facilitated the success of negotiations.
The Economic and Social Council has completed very important preparatory work and has started resolutely to exercise the functions assigned to it by the Charter, with a view to abolishing poverty and ensuring standards of living compatible with human dignity, which is the essential heritage of all mankind.
The Trusteeship Council which was set up at the end of last year has initiated a system of guaranteeing the progressive development of non-self- governing peoples towards self-government and independence.
Finally, the Security Council has been one of the most active bodies of the Organization; the record of its work is favourable if we do not consider exclusively the difficulties raised by the application of the unanimity rule, but remember the adverse circumstances in which its discussions have taken place. Although it has not achieved satisfactory results in certain grave and complex problems, owing to disagreement among its members, it has nevertheless examined and successfully solved other questions. It is to be hoped that it may achieve real success in its mission if all the permanent members convince themselves of the inevitable need for mutual understanding as an indispensable basis for the establishment and maintenance of peace.
The aggregate of this work signifies notable progress in relations between States and even if, in many cases, there have been certain defects in the methods followed, duplication of work and insufficient co-ordination of activities — due to the extremely rapid growth of the Organization — what has been achieved up to now nevertheless gives promise for the future of the United Nations, and demonstrates the possibilities it offers to all peoples to contribute to the firm establishment of international harmony.
However, we must recognize the present difficulties. The deterioration of economic conditions in which the world is struggling, the obstacles which we have faced and still face with regard to the liquidation of the consequences of the Second World War by means of equitable peace treaties, the limitations and delays which have impeded the work of some of the organs of the United Nations, particularly the Security Council, the lack of agreement among the great Powers regarding the solution of the fundamental problems of today, have created an atmosphere of unrest which we all feel. These circumstances, reflected in the large number of items on the agenda of this Assembly, on some of which there are major differences of opinion among the permanent members of the Security Council, again put to the test the effectiveness of the Assembly and have helped create the impression that it will not be able to solve these problems.
The much debated question of revising the United Nations Charter in order to abolish or limit the veto power, is once again under discussion. Last year the Venezuelan delegation clearly defined its position in this respect. Our country supports with unshakable determination the principle of the sovereign equality of all nations, which is not compatible with the privilege granted to the permanent members of the Security Council under Article 27 of the Charter. We recognize that the application of this Article has raised serious difficulties in the Council and, in some cases, impaired its authority and the prestige of the Organization, but we realize that amendments to the Charter take effect only after ratification by all the permanent members of the Council. Thus, if it were decided to abolish the veto in accordance with constitutional procedure, such a reform could not take effect if even one of the permanent members failed to support it. The trend of opinion against the veto is stronger this year than last, but all the great Powers do not yet seem prepared to waive their privilege.
Our delegation will therefore support practical measures likely to define the meaning of the unanimity rule and to prevent the improper use of the right it grants, in the hope that political conditions will develop in a manner favourable to the improvement of the juridical structure of United Nations.
As regards the admission of new Members, Venezuela maintains that a more liberal view of applications should be taken and that we should never forget the principle of universality as the basis of our Organization, which should comprise all peace-loving States which accept the obligations contained in the Charter, and, in the judgment of the Organization, are able and willing to carry out these obligations. In this connexion, the Venezuelan delegation wishes to state that it particularly favours the admission of Italy to membership in the United Nations, not only because of the friendship that exists between the Italian people and ours, whose feelings towards Italy are faithfully reproduced in a recent resolution of the National Constituent Assembly, but also because Italy will thus be afforded an opportunity to contribute its valuable co-operation and, at the proper time, to obtain the aid required for its industrial recovery and the re-establishment of domestic peace.
Assembly and of the efforts to implement the general policy thus laid down, it is obvious that the results obtained in this matter, which more urgently requires solution than any other, are scarcely satisfactory. At this time of economic poverty, it is essential that our various national resources should not be diverted towards an armaments race, which would be dangerous in any case; they should be devoted, as far as possible, to the relief of human needs, so as to achieve true security and the real enjoyment of freedom. Another urgent task is the liberation of all peoples from the fear created by the possible use of atomic energy for purposes of war. Faithful to the peaceful tradition of the Venezuelan nation, we therefore urge the great Powers to make every effort to reach an understanding among themselves, so as to give adequate implementation to the mandate of the Assembly.
The items on the agenda relating to the Balkan and the Palestine questions will also be the subject of controversy. Both questions have delicate aspects and require exhaustive examination. On the skill with which this examination is conducted and on the observance of the fundamental principles of the Charter, will depend the discovery of a formula for the re-establishment of peace and good relations between Greece and its northern neighbours, as well as the establishment of a basis for the greatest possible measure of agreement between the parties directly interested in the problem of the Holy Land. The best method of dealing with the Spanish question can similarly be found, if the interests of the United Nations are borne in mind. Venezuela takes this opportunity to reaffirm her policy of repudiating the Franco regime.
In addition to all these questions, there is one of a different character on which our delegation wishes to place special emphasis. I refer to the continued increase in the Organization’s expenses, which is partly due to the general tendency to set up new subsidiary groups, committees, sub-committees and working groups, without adequate preparation of the plans necessary to avoid useless duplication of work and the excessive bureaucratic expansion it entails, and without considering that less urgent or secondary questions can be dealt with later. Excessive expansion of the administrative budget affects all countries, but places the small countries in a particularly difficult position, both on account of their present economic weakness and the difficulty of obtaining foreign exchange. It is therefore desirable to exercise moderation in undertakings involving large expenditure on services that are not absolutely necessary. This does not mean that we should practice a policy of rigid economy, for that would hamper the Organization in every way, but expenditure should be considered in the light of the usefulness of the services provided.
Under Article 1 of the San Francisco Charter, this Organization should be a centre for harmonizing the actions of nations in the attainment of common ends which include the following: to develop friendly relations among nations; to achieve international co-operation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character, and to bring about by peaceful means, and in conformity with the principles of justice and international law, adjustment or settlement of international disputes or situations which might lead to a breach of the peace. On this occasion, the General Assembly bears the grave responsibility of faithfully observing these basic principles in order to preserve the faith placed in the United Nations.
We well know that the Assembly cannot assume executive powers that have not been vested in it, but let us remember that as the supreme deliberative body of the Organization, it has great power to mobilize world opinion and exert a salutary influence on Governments. It is empowered to examine the grave problems on the agenda.
Let us, therefore, play our full part to achieve the reconciliation of conflicting opinions, the subordination of national interests to the higher interests of the international community, tolerance, mutual understanding and confidence and the acceptance of the method of compromise. In a word, let us demonstrate the ability of this Assembly to deal satisfactorily with the situations likely to hamper the welfare and security of nations, in the conviction that we shall thus strengthen the authority and prestige of the Organization and render an inestimable service to the cause of peace.

===== Session 03 - 1948 =====
Mr. BLANCO (Venezuela) asked to be excused for saying that the peoples of the world were still waiting to see the word «determination» used in all sincerity in international parlance. In the Preamble to the Charter, the peoples of the United Nations affirmed that they were «determined» to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war, to proclaim anew their faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small, and to promote better living standards based on wider and greater freedom. At the same time they declared that they were resolved to combine their efforts to accomplish those aims, a decision which was backed by the pledged word of the nations. Inspired by a deep sentiment of human affection, and in the fullness of his love for the countries and peoples represented at the Assembly, he called for a display of real sincerity which alone would render possible the fulfilment of their pledged desires.
There was a whole world, as yet inchoate, but full of promise, behind present-day blindness and fatality, behind contemporary political thought. And it was that world, which, in the noble words used by Mr. Trygve Lie in the introduction to his report, the United Nations had been set up to create and raise from the bitter memories of the war through the combined faith of the peoples of the world.
The representative of Venezuela had not come to the Assembly with a message of pessimism. Amid the difficulties of the present time, it could not be denied that the United Nations offered a balance sheet of achievement that gave cause for optimism, and he fully shared the well-considered and high hopes expressed in the Secretary-General’s report. The United Nations had interposed law and human decency and conciliation between the peoples and the naked desire for power. Basing its efforts on an ardent desire to convince all and sundry, it had striven to conciliate opposing interpretations of history and life, by a full understanding of the diversity of systems and cultures; it had striven to find solutions for intricate problems by the peaceful means of mediation; it had called for a truce to hate and misunderstanding; it had admitted many Members who contributed to its universal character; it was trying to broaden those provisions that conflicted with the concept of equality of Members; in some cases good results had been achieved which argued well for the future of the international trusteeship system. Finally, recognition had to be given to the positive achievements of the Economic and Social Council which had been accomplished through the economic commissions, by the Human Rights Commission in its endeavour to establish a charter reflecting universal aspirations, and by the various subsidiary bodies engaged in promoting the economic, cultural, social and humanitarian advancement of the nations.
But while they were bound to recognize such progress they could not but admit that what remained to be done was far greater than what had been achieved so far. What remained to be done was to ensure practical results. The only enemy of determination and resolution was fear. Fear, that ancient creator of myths, had seized humanity in its grip. The main weakness of the United Nations was that it had to be not only an organization against war, but also an organization against the fear of war. Fear did not make for friendship, although danger united men when they had to defend themselves against others. But when they had to defend themselves against a common disaster such as war, mistrust and fear were mortal enemies of mankind. He was referring to the world’s fear, not to one nation’s fear of another. The dread that oppressed mankind and innocent people in all countries, the nullification of plans by a sense of insecurity, the inability to foresee what tomorrow might bring, and a lack of faith in the meaning and reason of life, all those stood in the way of world reconstruction. The antidote to those fears was in their hands, and it lay in their determination to understand each other so as to understand and respect others.
Like the Secretary-General, the Venezuelan representative felt it would be a grave mistake to believe that the world had to accept a single economic system whether based on the Communist doctrine of a classless society or on the capitalist version of free enterprise. In a world where so many forces were at work and so many cultural traditions intermingled, domination by any single ideology, whether political or economic, was unthinkable. World unity depended precisely upon clear differentiation between its various components and upon proper knowledge of its various groupings, so that its integration might be carried out deliberately and freely as between equals. There was no political or economic doctrine which had not been bitterly criticized. Each people must find the doctrine that suited it best. It was essential that neighbouring peoples should not try to impose their ways, views and doctrines on each other.
Let the main blocs agree to disagree concerning their different and opposing systems of living, in order to save the world from war. It was the fervent desire of all that the great Powers should work out ways and means to that end. The strong and the weak had to collaborate unhesitatingly as in one family where the older children tried to prevent the younger ones from fighting, and the younger ones tried to settle the disputes of their bigger brothers and sisters. Let there be an end to the practice of castigating any delegation which in the Assembly happened to vote in favour of a motion supported by some Western Power, for having yielded unconditionally to capitalist orders, and then, when the next day that same delegation happened to support a proposal for which the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was also voting, of suddenly transferring it to the Communist camp. Governments should be able to discuss all matters relating to the United Nations for in so doing they would evince greater concern and desire to do all in their power to implement the recommendations of the Assembly. He believed they were all agreed as to the necessity for rejecting everything which might hinder mutual understanding.
The United Nations Charter was the beacon, the torch which lighted their path. If they followed that path with constancy they would be able to deal as was required with the various items on the agenda. The speaker then proceeded to review a few of those points in order to define the attitude of his Government. The question of the admission of new Members was bound up with the very life of the United Nations, with the problem of strengthening and developing it until it achieved the ideal of universality. His delegation had maintained and still maintained that, in accordance with Article 4 of the Charter, agreement between the Security Council and the General Assembly was indispensable to the admission of applicant States. At the same time, however, his delegation took the view that when applications for admission were under consideration an unbiased and broadminded attitude should be shown in deciding whether the applicants accepted the obligations of the Charter and were able and willing to fulfil them. His delegation wished to submit once again that the United Nations would be the richer for the collaboration of certain States which, like Italy, desired membership in the community of nations. Linked, as his country was, with Italy, by language ties from the’ same Latin origin, it was fulfilling its historic duty by not subscribing to the concept of nations united by origin yet divided by destiny. In connexion with all applicant States, his delegation thought it essential to disregard political prejudices and, presuming good faith and peaceful intentions on their part, to adopt a favourable attitude towards them.
With regard to the Interim Committee of the General Assembly, Venezuela took a favourable view of the experiment represented by the latter’s work. The studies carried out in connexion with the establishment of adequate machinery for the pacific settlement of disputes augured well for the improvement of political conditions and the enhancement of the juridical authority of the United Nations. The recommendations concerning the relaxation of the right of veto were directed towards the regulation or voluntary limitation of that right, a view which his delegation was the first to proclaim.
The continuation of that experiment appeared useful for the United Nations, but if the Committee’s activities were to be prolonged its aims would be attained only if all Members of the United Nations took part in the work of the Committee. Such co-operation would help to keep the Interim Committee in its place as a subsidiary organ and would save time for the regular sessions of the main organ.
The work done by the United Nations in connexion with disarmament and atomic energy revealed a regrettable contradiction. While all Member States, including the five permanent members of the Security Council, had undertaken to eliminate all weapons of mass destruction, to reduce and regulate armaments and armed forces and to establish systems of international control to prevent violations, the deliberations of the bodies responsible for implementing those decisions of the Assembly had achieved no positive results and, owing to the disagreement of the great Powers, had reached a stage which gave rise to grave fears for international security. International distrust continued to prevent the discovery of a formula calculated to solve those serious problems. Once again there was discussion as to whether security should precede disarmament or whether the latter was a prior condition of the former. Moreover, it was maintained in some quarters that the establishment of a system of international control should precede the prohibition of the manufacture of atomic weapons and the destruction of those already in existence; elsewhere it was maintained that prohibition of the manufacture of those weapons and the destruction of those in existence should recede international control. Thus, the heavy burden of war budgets and the perpetual fear of atomic devastation continued to weigh heavily on the peoples, a fact which made it most desirable that there should be established some means of combining a system of unrestricted international control with the prohibition of manufacture of those weapons and arrangements to destroy those that existed.
The reconstruction of the war-devastated areas and the economic development of underdeveloped areas were inter-dependent problems which had been the subject of special attention by the Economic and Social Council and its functional and regional commissions. That international action had been supplemented by the efforts of groups of States with a common desire for rehabilitation and advancement, but the results obtained in both cases had not been sufficiently satisfactory as a result of the influence of political factors. The solution of economic problems could only be achieved by co-operation. The idea of exclusion of systems and opposition of interests had to be set aside in order to make possible the discovery of paths leading to collaboration and understanding. The signal success achieved by the Economic Commission for Europe proved the possibility of such co-operation.
But the need for economic reconstruction was inseparable from the need for social progress. Economic progress or the increase of the material wealth of a people was of no avail, unless accompanied by a rise in the standard of living of the workers and opportunities to improve the nation’s human potential in health and culture.
Speaking of the nations that required aid, Mr. Blanco said that the United Nations should not forget those, like Venezuela, that did not require money, as they had currency of high exchange value, and were large producers of primary commodities, but which did need equipment to enable them to invest their present income in the establishment and financing of an economic system based on agriculture, stock- breeding and industry. In such conditions, when their present methods of production came to an end, or were replaced by another, they would be able to count on a surer and more stable source of national wealth.
With regard to the Spanish question, the representative of Venezuela declared it was hardly a problem of government; it was mainly a problem of people. The existence of a dictatorial regime in Spain was certainly more dangerous than the advent of a democratic republic. Most Venezuelans considered that their hostile attitude to the political regime in Madrid was a proof of their deep affection for the Spanish people.
As to the non-self-governing territories, Mr. Blanco wished to clarify the position of the Venezuelan Government, which had been somewhat misunderstood. That position was in complete accordance with the principles of the Charter. It was not to be expected that nations that were born of an anti-colonial movement would be in favour of colonization. Therefore the Venezuelan Government adhered to the principle of the right of self-determination of peoples and appreciated the loyalty of those nations which respected the Charter by raising the level of populations under their administration and led them along the path of self-government.
The representative of Venezuela made a vibrant appeal for good understanding, not in the name of a group of peoples residing in a given hemisphere, but in the name of the weak nations and even in the name of the weak in all nations. He would not call attention to the achievements of America in international law, but to the need for the world to listen to America’s voice. The culture of the Old World was the common inheritance of humanity. It should not be said that modern man wished to destroy the master works of the past. Such works had to be saved, as in the story of Selma Lagerloef, in which Jesus made some clay birds fly away, to save them from the anger of a child.
Roosevelt had created the most powerful war machine in order to destroy an « anti-principle »; but if it had been within his power, the bombs would have fallen only on the «anti-principle» and not on beautiful things and people.
It might be said that Venezuela also had a colony in Europe. It was a symbolic colony which consisted of those who might have one day come to work and live in Venezuela. In the name of those persons, Venezuela affirmed that the world did not want war or the fear of war. The rights of doctrine must not destroy the doctrine of rights; the noble blood of Colonel Sérot and of the Mediator for Palestine should not be allowed to have been spilt in vain. The peoples, well-governed and always in possession of their sovereign will, had to achieve an international policy under which peace would not be a state of equilibrium but a state of mind. There should be no attempts to improve the distribution of wealth resulting in a perfect distribution of poverty. The aim should be a world with a great capacity for life, not a world with a great capacity for death. Men should not be allowed to say that the Atlantic Charter was written on water.
Mr. Blanco said he wished to finish his speech with words of hope. The family of the United Nations had returned to Europe and were united in their love for Paris, the city that was loved by those who had been there, were there and would be there. Within the walls of the «City of Light», the Venezuelan representative affirmed his faith in life. He prayed to God that the ship of human hopes, like the ship on the arms of Lutetia, might at length be able to inscribe forever on its flag the watchword: Nec mergitur.


===== Session 04 - 1949 =====
Mr. STOLK recalled that 24 October would mark the fourth anniversary of the date of deposit of the ratifications necessary for the entry into force of the United Nations Charter, an act which had preceded the first session of the General Assembly, held in London a few months later. At that time, the optimism to which the coming into being of the United Nations had given rise had been overshadowed by the difficulties of many problems. Many delegations had emphasized that the errors of the past should be avoided and had referred continually in the discussions to the reason for the failure of the League of Nations. Various representatives had referred to the role to be played by the great Powers and by the so-called medium or small States in the development of real international cooperation. Atomic energy had also been mentioned as one of the basic problems which gave rise to the dilemma of peace and war. In spite of doubt whether it would be possible to retain co-operative unity between the great Powers after the end of hostilities, it had been hoped that difficulties would be overcome by understanding and tolerance, and that sure progress would be made towards the accomplishment of the ideals of the Charter.
64.	Since that time the work of the United Nations had increased in an amazing way. Its principal organs and a great many subsidiary bodies had carried out continuous work and the Secretariat had gained great experience and had made its technical and practical contribution in an enthusiastic and praiseworthy manner. But all that work had taken place under the continual pressure of political events, of social upheavals and dangerous economic crises which had stultified international co-operation and had created a number of difficulties in finding the lowest common denominator for reconciling basic differences and bringing opposing tendencies together.
65.	Hardly a year previously the General Assembly had met in Paris in an undeniable atmosphere of fear. The discord among the great Powers, aggravated by the Berlin blockade, had caused international tension which had given rise to all kinds of scepticism in public opinion. But common sense and the firm desire to explore all possibilities of agreement "had prevailed in the United Nations, and especially in the General Assembly, which had unanimously adopted its resolution 190 (III), sponsored by Mexico, requesting the great Powers to renew their efforts to settle their differences and to establish permanent peace. At the same time, the Presidents of the Security Council and of the General Assembly, together with the Secretary-General and the Argentine, Belgian, Canadian, Chinese, Colombian and Syrian delegations, had exhausted all means in their power to find a solution to the Berlin blockade dispute which would be acceptable to all parties.
66.	The lifting of the blockade and the meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers in Paris had resulted from that co-ordinated action. But fundamental differences still existed between the great Powers, and the final post-war settlement and the signing of the peace treaties were still indispensable prerequisites for the functioning of the United Nations and the proper solution of the aforesaid political problems. Many of the Charter’s provisions could not be implemented until that prior condition had been met, and the real and effective co-operation of all Member States could not bear fruit until the difficult task of postwar settlement had been accomplished. The nations’ path to their final goal was fraught with difficulties which helped to maintain mutual distrust, and many nations, anxious to preserve their common interests and the basic principles of their civilization, had felt obliged to group themselves against any possible emergencies.
67.	But the possibilities of progress towards permanent peace appeared more promising than the previous year. In the introduction to his report, the Secretary-General had stated that he was frankly optimistic, and the President had supported him by expressing the hope that the current session would be known as that of the “Peace Assembly” (220th meeting). And the containing of the differences between the great Powers within peaceful limits, the lessening of the fear of a new war and the positive work carried out by the United Nations in recent months augured results more constructive than those of the past.
68.	Mr. Stolk referred to the mediation and conciliation negotiations initiated by Count Bernadotte, who had died in the accomplishment of his efforts for peace in Palestine, efforts which had culminated, under the Acting Mediator, in the armistice agreements between the parties concerned. That showed the undeniable value of peaceful procedure when used as an instrument of the United Nations for the settlement of disputes. In Indonesia, again as a result of the conciliation efforts of the United Nations, a beginning appeared to have been made along the path leading to final harmony between the indigenous inhabitants and Europeans. It was hoped that in Kashmir too the active progress of the Commission would finally assure a system likewise offering equitable guarantees for the settlement of the conflict.
69.	In economic and social matters a great effort had been displayed during the year covered by the Secretary-General's report. There had been close collaboration between the United Nations and its specialized agencies in improving conditions for the production and distribution of food, and attention had been given to questions of labour, health, nutrition, child welfare, narcotics control, education and refugees. Mr. Stolk referred to the granting of fellowships for specialized studies, to the organization of seminars and similar social welfare services, and emphasized the special interest devoted during the preceding year to the problems of economic development of under-developed countries, the promotion of full employment and economic stability, and the technical assistance necessary to attain such aims together with a general improvement in the standard of living of the peoples. The Venezuelan delegation had always been very interested in the question of economic development; the many aspects of the problems of development of underdeveloped countries would be studied on the basis of the co-operative programme of technical assistance for economic development through the United Nations and the specialized agencies, submitted by the Economic and Social Council. All that activity in the economic, social and cultural fields tended to neutralize the political tendencies which hindered a rebirth of international confidence.
70.	The United Nations Trusteeship System was being progressively strengthened and was promoting the interests of the Trust Territories, in order to enable the respective populations freely to determine their own destinies. The General Assembly had carefully considered the position of the so-called Non-Self-Governing Territories and had decided to establish a Special Committee on Information transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter. Thus peaceful collaboration between the Administering Powers and other Member States in the interests of all those peoples would be possible, without any derogation from the sovereignty of the former.
71.	Mr. Stolk repeated that the principal causes which hindered the Organization’s action and the application of certain provisions of „ the Charter lay in the disagreement between the great Powers.
72.	The application of the unanimity rule had created new obstacles. Its effect had made itself felt recently in the question of the admission of new Members. On that point, the Venezuelan delegation confirmed the opinions it had previously expressed.
73.	The use of the veto to bar the admission of States to membership in the United Nations was unjustified when it was based on reasons other than those indicated in Article 4 of the Charter; it was in opposition to that express provision and disregarded the opinion given by the International Court of Justice. The fact that a State was peace-loving, accepted the obligations of the Charter, and was willing and able to carry them out, was sufficient reason to act on its application for admission; the delay on the fourteen applications which were pending was reducing the authority and prestige of the United Nations.
74.	The interpretation of the provisions of the Charter had given rise to contradictory decisions and violent statements, in particular whenever attempts had been made to determine the exact scope of the principle of non-intervention set forth in paragraph 7 of Article 2, safeguarding the sovereignty of States Members in matters which were essentially within their domestic jurisdiction. The question was often determined by political factors, with the consequent danger of contradictory interpretations. On several occasions the minority had categorically rejected the opinion of the majority, on the ground that it violated the provisions of that Article. That deepened division and prejudiced international cooperation in matters as important as human rights. Perhaps not a few States Members would be unwilling to subscribe, in due course, to the covenant on human rights and to the measures of implementation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which the General Assembly had proclaimed by its resolution 217 (III) of 10 December 1948, if they found that politics were going to be used as an instrument of pressure to interpret particular clauses in cases of alleged violations. The Venezuelan delegation considered that an effort should be made to define the scope of the principle of non-intervention, as set forth in the Charter, in the light of those provisions of the Charter which established the general principles of international co-operation in the economic, social, cultural and humanitarian fields. The International Court of Justice or the International Law Commission might perhaps render valuable service if they were to consider the matter and give an opinion on it. The Venezuelan delegation also thought that the Court was called upon to play a role of cardinal importance whenever disputes arose in the General Assembly regarding the existence of facts which, once proved, would constitute a violation of an international obligation.
75.	It had also been impossible to give effect to Article 43 of the Charter. Disagreement on the problem of armaments and the prohibition and control of atomic energy and other means of mass destruction subsisted more or less as before. It was argued that so long as security had not been achieved, there could be no disarmament, but at the same time the delay in reaching agreement on those problems caused a continuance of the fear which made armaments seem indispensable for the protection of peace and security against possible aggression. The same unfavourable circumstances prevented any agreement between East and West in working out means of guaranteeing that atomic energy would be used for peaceful purposes only. The Venezuelan delegation hoped that the obstacles to the solution of those problems would not result in a long postponement of the efforts necessary for their solution.
76.	 Mr. Stolk concluded by saying that the Venezuelan delegation wholeheartedly shared the hopes and aims of all those who wished the General Assembly’s deliberations the greatest success. He did not believe that the accusations of the past would fail to break out again during the discussions. Nevertheless, the Venezuelan delegation was confident that the favourable circumstances to which Mr. Stolk had referred earlier in his speech would finally justify; the bright hope expressed by the President of the Assembly that the current session would prove to be that of the “Peace Assembly”. Only through the activities of the United Nations, inspired by truth, justice and equity, could all countries reconcile their interests and find the way that led to agreement, friendship, and effective international co-operation.


===== Session 05 - 1950 =====
In the annual report of the Secretary-General on the work of the Organization which, together with the report of the Security Council, forms the main basis for this general debate, two points are remarkable above all others.
130.	The first is the failure of the great Powers, victors in the Second World War, in then efforts to achieve an understanding concerning the peace treaties with the defeated countries. If no remedy is found for this adverse situation, it will continue to affect the Organization’s work in the future as it has affected it up to now.
131.	The second is the action undertaken by the United Nations to redress the situation in Korea and restore peace.
132.	In circumstances like the present, it would perhaps be advisable to exercise the privilege of saying nothing. When problems are so delicate, when passions and suspicions have become so acute, one unfortunate expression or a mistaken intention is sufficient to widen differences. Yet the matters before the Assembly are of such a nature that my delegation considers it the bounden duty of Members of the United Nations to set forth clearly their views on the general progress of the Organization.
133.	The opinion is very generally held that the condition of the world, as this Assembly meets, is more alarming than at any other time since 1945. Both the retiring President of the Assembly, General Romulo, and Mr. Entezam, who is now so competently presiding over our deliberations, drew attention to that fact in their speeches on the opening day of this session.
134.	For some, the movement towards universality of the United Nations is making slow progress, since there are many States whose desire to become Members has, for perfectly well-known reasons, not yet been satisfied. For others, the spirit of San Francisco has foundered, and, with it, the work which it inspired. From all quarters the weakness of the United Nations is criticized. The example of the League of Nations is frequently recalled.
135.	Allow me to say that I do not altogether share this tendency to pessimism. It is true that the examination of the report of the Secretary-General, as well as those of some other principal and subsidiary organs of the United Nations, shows once more the disproportion existing between the variety and effectiveness of the Organization’s work in what are known as technical questions and the very meagre results obtained in political questions.
136.	The principles of the Charter express the aspirations of all men of good will: peace, justice, security, equality of the large and small nations; their aim is “to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights…, to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom”.
137.	The authors of the Charter, while enunciating these principles, realized that the world was neither static nor immovable, and contemplated the coming into play of dynamic forces, at times opposed to existing forces, as well as the means for solving, in a spirit of co-operation and harmony, the problems which such forces might bring in their wake.
138.	But a great deal of time is required for noble ideas to bear fruit and penetrate the minds of men and peoples. Anyone who has learnt how many centuries it took to establish and consolidate the rules of law which today give stability to relations between individuals and are almost universally respected, must agree that an augury of better times is provided by the progress already achieved in the international sphere in the regulation of relations between States in accordance with principles which, until very recently, pertained only to the realm of doctrinal speculation.
139.	In spite of great difficulties, the United Nations has progressed, slowly but surely, towards the achievement of those purposes. We are convinced that if the Organization did not exist, the world would be abandoned to absolute chaos. And this is not mere idealism. I make so bold as to call it realism, since we may recall the incontrovertible and repeated fact that each apparent failure of a universal international body is succeeded by an even greater effort to recreate it in a better and more dynamic form.
140.	Those who maintain that the United Nations is suffering from the same ills which brought the League of Nations to disaster should reflect on what happened between 1931 and 1939. In those years, the League dealt with — or was required to deal with — a series of aggressions committed against Manchuria, Ethiopia, China, Czechoslovakia and many other countries. The ineffectiveness of the League in regard to those questions should be compared with the attitude adopted by the United Nations in the questions of Greece, Palestine, India-Pakistan, Indonesia and Korea.
141.	In all these questions the United Nations provided the means for restoring peace and, in the case of Korea, for repelling aggression. We hope that, once peace has been achieved, the United Nations will in addition take adequate measures to pacify men’s minds and promote an atmosphere of justice under a free regime.
142.	It was precisely this determined attitude on the part of the Security Council in the case of Korea and the support given by an overwhelming majority of Member States which caused hope to revive even in the most sceptical and silenced the Organization’s detractors.
143.	Still there are some who say that the most serious situation confronting us is not so much the problem of restoring peace in Korea as the unwillingness of one member of the Security Council, which enjoys the privilege of the veto, to accept the position taken by the Council, and by fifty-three of the fifty-nine Member States of the United Nations, with regard to the armed action of the North Korean authorities against the Republic of Korea, a State which had been established by the United Nations and which functioned under its aegis.
144.	The fact is the more obvious since, for a time, the Security Council acted as it should, that is, it took adequate and concrete measures to repel aggression, in keeping with the Charter and the interpretation placed on it and on the events by the majority.
145.	Owing to the circumstances attending the case of Korea, the action of the Council since 1 August last has revealed once again its organic weakness and revealed in all its magnitude the perils to which the Venezuelan delegation, among others, referred in San Francisco when it accepted the voting formula in the Security Council as proposed by the great Powers. At that time the delegation of Venezuela spoke on these lines: We are voting in favour of the Yalta text not reluctantly but without enthusiasm. At all events, it appears necessary, in the present circumstances, in the first stage of the international Organization we are creating. It is, however, our ardent hope that in the not too distant future it will be possible to give greater flexibility to the procedure established by the Charter and that progress will be made towards a system under which a single member will not be able to obstruct the Council and which will at the same time be more in accordance with democratic principles. For this purpose amendments to the Charter should be facilitated.
146.	The requirement indicated by the delegation of Venezuela in San Francisco became obvious as soon as the Security Council began to function, since in its work the Council has been handicapped by the systematic obstruction on the part of one of its members of any majority decision which that member considered as conflicting with its interests, of whatever nature, including the interests of mere propaganda.
147.	Apparently it is we small Powers that are most concerned in opposing right to force, since our very existence depends on the check which respect for the international standard should place on the sweeping expansionist force of the great Powers.
148.	I say “apparently” because the example of what happened to Germany and Japan, which were great Powers until they unleashed the Second World War, should be borne in mind by those States which base their conduct not on respect for right but on the use of force.
149.	On that account, we cannot conceive that any State with the most elementary instinct of self-preservation could be interested in the collapse of the United Nations, or what is worse, in making it inoperative, in undermining its existence. And for that reason also, when the Organization’s collapse is predicted in some quarters, it is the duty of all of us, by strengthening the effectiveness of its machinery, to affirm our faith in it and in its principles, not only on account of what it may accomplish but because of what in certain political and, of course, in technical matters it has already accomplished.
150.	Before summarizing my country’s position on the present international situation, my delegation wishes to express the satisfaction with which it has followed the efforts of the Secretary-General of the Organization, as explained in the introduction to his report, to end the impasse which the United Nations has reached in some of its vital activities.
151.	Venezuela, in the face of the aggression upon the Republic of Korea, has already stated its position and reaffirms it here. It condemns aggression and it firmly believes that the authority of the United Nations will restore the rule of law in that part of the world. Venezuela has taken concrete action in the matter; it has made contributions of an economic nature, to assist, in so far as it is capable, in repelling the aggression, as I had the honour to inform the Secretary-General a few days ago.
152.	In this hour of crisis, in which the world Organization is for the first time opposing an act of armed aggression and applying the measures authorized under Chapter VII of the Charter, Venezuela is convinced that it is the inescapable duty of the Members of the United Nations to strengthen, both morally and legally, the authority of the Organization.
153.	Finally, Venezuela believes that the resolutions duly adopted by the Assembly should guide the work of the other principal and subsidiary organs, in particular the Security Council, so that the Council may take effective action as provided for in Article 24 of the United Nations Charter.


===== Session 06 - 1951 =====
Venezuela is attending this Assembly in the spirit in which it always attends international conferences; it has come here to offer in all sincerity its co-operation to the United Nations in the tasks that lie before it and is prepared to consider fully all the views expressed in a spirit of fraternity and constructive frankness, without which nothing lasting or real can be achieved. It will, in short, unite its efforts with those being exerted here in pursuance of the ideals of our Organization, and it is prepared to concur in and support any action which will benefit the peoples of the world. Our delegation’s attitude is dictated by, and is in keeping with, the deep-rooted traditions of Venezuela and is an expression of the feelings of our countrymen.
48.	Venezuela believes in the efficacy of our system and consequently it loyally fulfils its obligations as a Member State, not only on the universal plane within the Organization, but also in its bilateral relations with other countries, since it is of opinion that only thus can the work in which we are engaged progress. It would have been useless for us to have given our support to the principles laid down in the Charter and to have subscribed to the decisions adopted by this body through its various organs if we were, in bilateral policy, to betray the ideals of the United Nations and disregard its fundamental purposes.
49.	However, our attitude is not inspired solely by the duty of remaining true to our past and to our people! we are also convinced that by nobility and sincerity of political purposes alone can peace be achieved. Systems for the prevention of war which are theoretically perfect may be put forward, but if goodwill and sincerity of purpose are absent, the time will come when all systems will fail and all methods prove ineffective, since real peace can only be attained when there is a universal conscience embodying and integrating similar ideals and consequently inspiring action of the same moral calibre.
50.	From a practical point of view, we are well aware that any system of peace which can be devised must, if it is to be effective, be able to count on the support and the goodwill of all States, and particularly of those States which bear the greatest share of, responsibility for its implementation. My delegation was therefore surprised id and disappointed to see that when the United States, France and the United Kingdom, in complete loyalty and With an unquestionable desire for harmony, presented a disarmament plan and offered genuine possibilities for understanding, a minority remained aloof from the general spirit of harmony and agreement by which almost all the countries represented here were animated, and persisted in maintaining a negative and intransigent attitude. I repeat that we were surprised and disappointed to see that when these three Powers stated, their readiness to enter immediately into negotiations within the United Nations regarding disarmament, a destructive and discordant reply was made that proposal, thus precluding any friendly understanding. As representative of Venezuela, I feel it my duty to make the voice of my country heard at this time of danger, which is also a time of hope, and to express the wish that harmony and understanding will be established on that is what our peoples ask of us and what they expect to be the outcome of our deliberations.
51.	I should like now to indicate more explicitly the position which the Venezuelan delegation will adopt in regard to some of the items on the agenda of the present session of the General Assembly.
52.	When, in July 1950, the aggression against the Korean Republic occurred, Venezuela reacted by condemning that flagrant attack, as did various other Members of the United Nations. The reasons for that reaction were obvious, since such an attack was clearly inconsistent with the purposes and principles which we accepted on signing the Charter at San Francisco. A year and a half have passed since the outbreak of hostilities. During that time much blood has been shed and, in spite of persistent efforts to restore peace in that region, war has continued with further casualties and the danger of an extension of the conflict remains. Collective security action by the Organization, which was put to the test for the first time, is evolving in Korea in a spirit of unshakable and ever-growing determination. However, this state of affairs, although inevitable for reasons of which we are all aware, is a source of constant concern to those of us who believe that the United Nations work for peace. We trust therefore that hostilities may soon end, on the understanding however that peace must be achieved under conditions of justice and that the authority of the Organization is thereby reinforced.
53.	Only an unshakable determination to repel the oppressor has made it possible for the system of co-operation, which had to be hastily improvised in Korea, to yield practical results. To that end, in order to obviate any need for improvisation in the future, the General Assembly adopted, at its fifth session, the resolution [377 (V)] entitled “Uniting for Peace”. That resolution set up the Collective Measures Committee, of which Venezuela has had the honour to be a member and whose report will be discussed in this session.
54.	Although the ideal of a universal system of collective security is one of long standing, this is certainly the first time that such a system has been worked out in detail and with the will to put it into effect. For that very reason, the report to be discussed by this Assembly will suffer from the natural imperfections characteristic of all beginnings. Collective security, if it is to be worthy of that name and if it is to function efficiently, must be based on the individual security of all those countries which are prepared to contribute to the common effort for the maintenance and restoration of peace. A country would not be working for this vital purpose if it neglected its own defence, thus creating an area readily vulnerable not only to military but also to economic aggression. Individual efforts by countries to strengthen their defences in order to contribute towards joint defence constitute one positive method of preventing the outbreak of new problems. Moreover, the aim pursued by a collective security system is primarily to discourage aggression before it occurs. In order to achieve this, it is necessary not only for all national efforts to be co-ordinated but also to ensure that no country or area may be regarded as an easy prey for a potential aggressor who would try eventually to undertake action on a more far-reaching scale. The report of the Collective Measures Committee does indeed take these circumstances into account. However, it might be desirable to state them more clearly.
55.	Of course, if an effective understanding of the proposals made regarding disarmament could be reached and if all peoples were unanimous in their will to arrive at a real plan for the realization of peace, the collective security system would then have as its basis universal co-operation in the defence of a common aim rather than the need for preventing new conflicts; it would be established in order to strengthen the Charter and give it life rather than to attempt to curb ambitions contrary to its purposes. Venezuela, then, is prepared to continue to co-operate in the effort for universal security in the same way as it has done in the regional security system of the Organization of American States, and it is sincerely gratified at having been a member of the Collective Measures Committee, whose work and whose report constitute, beyond any doubt, a step forward towards the ideal of establishing law and justice as the guiding principles of international relations.
56.	Thus also, Venezuela will continue to support the plans for developing international economic co-operation through the United Nations. Gradually but surely, the idea of interdependence has been accepted in this field: the idea that all countries, large and small, should direct their efforts towards the welfare of all nations as a whole and the recognition that the progress and development of the economic potentialities of any area of the world lead to a state of well-being and higher standards of living for all nations.
57.	The belief that freedom from social unrest and that economic welfare could exist in some countries side by side with misery and hunger in others has been strongly disproved by recent history. My country has consequently noted with particular sympathy the marked interest with which the Organization has taken up the problems of economic development. To bring to under-developed regions the capital and technical knowledge essential to them, thereby creating more favourable conditions of wealth and welfare, is not only a comprehensive and generous humanitarian task, but also enlightened and intelligent action in keeping with political and social reality.
58.	It is not yet possible to make a final appraisal of the work which the United Nations, directly or through the various specialized agencies, has been accomplishing in this field. The recent impetus given to technical assistance programmes is, nevertheless, a clear sign, auguring well for the future, of the interest with which these problems are now being considered at the present time. My country wishes to express its enthusiasm for this work of cooperation, which will form a solid foundation for the final achievement of world peace.
59.	Since the first session of the Assembly in 1946, the delegation of Venezuela has continued to maintain the principle of the universality of the Organization. Unfortunately, however, the result of the voting in the Security Council has denied the United Nations the valuable co-operation of various countries which have requested admission to the Organization. Among them, may I refer specifically to Italy, a nation with glorious traditions, whose democratic spirit today and the vigour with which it has regained its place amongst the most progressive States, make its presence within our Organization of the utmost importance. Consequently, my delegation is extremely, anxious that, at the present session, the Assembly should thoroughly study the problem of the admission of this State in order to arrive at a satisfactory solution which would put an end to this unjust situation incompatible with the interests of the Organization.
60.	Venezuela is also gratified to note the proposal of the three great Western Powers for the restoration of German unity, as it feels that the United Nations cannot remain indifferent to the fate of Germany. Morally, and in accordance with the Charter, they are interested parties in the solution of this problem. When the great Powers became responsible for the administration of Germany, they did not do so in order to keep the country divided but with the intention of re-educating it as a peace-loving State. The present situation, artificial as it is, can only be considered.as temporary; it is essential to seek a solution to put an end to it.
61.	I should not like to leave this rostrum without expressing the earnest hope of the Government of Venezuela that this Assembly may lead to the adoption of decisions for ensuring peace and bringing well-being to all countries of the world. I would also reiterate our sentiments of admiration and gratitude for the French nation, which once again has received us with its splendid and generous hospitality.


===== Session 08 - 1953 =====
161.	Among the resolutions adopted by the Economic and Social Council at its sixteenth session, held recently in Geneva, was resolution 482 A (XVI). In part II of that resolution, the Council recommends that the General Assembly should consider, at its eighth session, a draft text whereby Member States would declare themselves prepared to ask their peoples, “when sufficient progress has been made in internationally supervised worldwide disarmament, to devote a portion of the savings achieved through such disarmament to an international fund, within the framework of the United Nations, to assist development and reconstruction in under-developed countries”.
162.	At the time the resolution was adopted, a justifiable feeling of optimism was reigning in Geneva and in the world at large, arising from the recent signing of the Korean armistice. Later developments, however, are tending to change the hopeful atmosphere which then prevailed and are giving grounds for apprehension that the brief relaxation of international tension which appeared to be setting in last July may be coming to an end. It would be a pity if this eighth session of the Assembly should have to complete its deliberations in the same atmosphere that has hung over the United Nations since 1950.
163.	These developments are related to the new conditions which the Central People’s Government of the People’s Republic of China and the authorities of North Korea are putting to the United Nations and which threaten to delay once again the settlement of this question which is so fraught with dangers for world peace. It is the under-developed countries which would suffer most directly from such a postponement, for it would be a direct blow to the countries needing assistance from abroad, among which, first and foremost, are the peoples of Asia and Africa. The industrially developed States, seeing their security imperilled, feel that, in view of the magnitude of the threat, any precaution they may take is justified.
164.	It has been clearly established in the reports of the Disarmament Commission that the prerequisite for the regulation, limitation and balanced reduction of all armed forces and all armaments lies in the relaxation of international tension. We know where the focal points of international tension are and we are well aware that the most immediate danger lies in Korea. If, then, we delay action for the simultaneous settlement of all the points at issue which form what the Secretary-General calls in his memorandum “the East-West conflict”, we shall be at the mercy of vague general formulas which, though they may appear adequate at first glance, will be open to perpetual differences of interpretation.
165.	Moreover, as the great majority of the Member States noted in the recent debates at the end of the seventh session, one of the most constructive results of the Korean armistice and one that was most in keeping with the Charter was that it could not be inferred from the text of the agreement that either side was the victor or the vanquished.
166.	The United Nations, which represents the sum total of the different political trends in the modem world, had only one aim in view: to impede the progress of violence as a means of attaining advantages. Notwithstanding this, the other side appears to be prompted by the determination to claim a victory, not only over those countries which contributed with their forces to the action in Korea, but also over the fifty-one Member States which qualified the attack on the Republic of Korea as an act of aggression and, what is worse, over the Charter itself. To accept conditions inspired by this claim would be tantamount to permitting an inadmissible revision of the Charter, for it would imply that the Charter could be set aside every time an aggressor demanded, as the price of peace, that the principles laid down in this collective treaty should be disregarded.
167.	My delegation recognizes the vital needs that these circumstances have created for the more, highly industrialized countries. The inherent right of self-defence is sanctioned in one of the basic provisions of our Charter, Article 51. The dilemma with which this Assembly is faced is delicate and dangerous, for the means of defence would always be inadequate if, in addition to our present problems, new problems were to arise as a result of the interruption or impairment of the pacific measures which have been employed to prevent possible sources of discontent and violence from being used and exploited by international subversive agitation. First and foremost, among the potential sources of discontent is poverty, due to backward methods of production, and particularly the catastrophic disproportion between the rates of increase of population and of food production. This problem, of supreme importance for international peace and security, formed, as it were, the heart of the discussions of the fifteenth session of the Economic and Social Council, when the world economic situation was under review. At its next session, that vital organ of the United Nations dealt more concretely with the various aspects of the problem. Its honest and painstaking work resulted in the adoption of resolution 482 (XVI), to which I have already referred, concerning the economic development of under-developed countries, resolution 483 (XVI), on full employment, resolution 486 (XVI), concerning international tax problems, and resolution 496 (XVI), outlining a concerted programme of practical action in the social field for the United Nations and the specialized agencies.
168.	In resolution 482 A (XVI), the Council stresses the need for the establishment of a special fund to assist development and reconstruction in underdeveloped countries. Technical assistance could produce no effective results if nations which train experts to organize their development were to lack the funds necessary to carry out their plans.
169.	It will be equally difficult for these areas to prosper if they are not assured of an active role in the operation of the machinery of world economy. The resolutions on full employment and on international tax problems were adopted with this end in view.
170.	In the last paragraph of resolution 483 D (XVI) on full employment, the Council “Calls upon all governments, with a view to increasing trade, employment and standards of living, to take all practicable steps to reduce obstacles to the development of normal and mutually beneficial trade between countries, availing themselves, inter alia, of any opportunities which may arise as a consequence of improved balance of payments or monetary reserve positions, the maturing of newly- developed industries or an easing of international tensions”.
171.	With regard to international tax problems, it is true that the Economic and Social Council could not arrive at any definite recommendation concerning the disadvantages of double taxation. On this matter it confined itself to asking the Fiscal Commission in its resolution 486 B (XVI), to continue its studies, and to recommending that “. . . the highly developed countries, acting unilaterally or when concluding tax. agreements, should give special consideration to the feasibility of taking action to ensure that such income is taxable only or primarily in the country in which the income was produced”.
172.	The delegations of the under-developed countries were all in agreement in pointing out that low taxes would not stimulate the investment of foreign capital if the capital-exporting countries imposed a tax on such capital that was equivalent to the difference between what would have been paid on the income it would have produced in those countries and what was paid in the country where it was invested.
173.	Rarely, perhaps, has it been so necessary for the United Nations to focus its utmost attention upon these problems as at the present time, when the fomenters of international tension never fail to exploit grounds of dissatisfaction in order to foster sentiments hostile to the majority of the Members of the United Nations and particularly to the industrially developed Western Powers.
174.	Side by side with these problems of an economic and social character, there are others which can bring about a difficult situation if the process of evolution which began at San Francisco is interrupted. I refer to the destiny of the Non-Self-Governing and Trust Territories.
175.	The traditional attitude of Venezuela to this question is well known. My Government considers that Chapter XI of the Charter, concerning the satisfaction of the legitimate aspirations of the peoples of these territories, should be implemented without undue haste or intransigence. On the contrary, we consider that gradual evolution is the best way of ensuring that full self-government, instead of creating new needs or new problems for the territories, will lead to the greater well-being of all the inhabitants.
176.	My delegation is also particularly interested in the proposals put forward by the Netherlands and Egypt which, together with the earlier proposal by Argentina, form a basis on which to begin the preparatory or preliminary work required for a rational and constructive revision of the Charter when the time comes. While the system by which the United Nations is governed cannot be considered in the main imperfect, it nevertheless contains provisions which could well be revised. The observations made by many delegations at San Francisco have since been reinforced by those of jurists and thinkers who favour reform. My delegation considers that if the preparatory work which has been recommended is put in hand forthwith, the experience we have gained since the establishment i of the Organization will enable us to assemble sufficient material to draw up an instrument which will embody one of the most sacred principles of international law —  the juridical equality of States, a principle which, although proclaimed in the Charter, has been distorted by the rule of unanimity.
177.	In congratulating the President on her election to her high office, my delegation cherishes the well-founded hope that under her direction the Assembly will not neglect these vital and important problems during its eighth session.

===== Session 09 - 1954 =====
At this time, when the General Assembly is beginning its yearly session, we must recognize, in a spirit of cold reality, that there has been no relaxation of tension in the international situation during the time which has elapsed between the adjournment of the eighth session on 9 December 1953 and the opening of the present session.
2.	One of the immediate beneficial effects of the end of the conflict in Indo-China should have been a relaxation of international tension, but it is not possible to say that such a result has been produced, as may be seen from certain incidents which have occurred in the international field since the Geneva Conference. One of those incidents was recently brought to the notice of the Security Council as constituting a threat to world peace. Encounters have taken place in Chinese waters between the armed forces of the Nationalists and the Communists, thus endangering peace. The situation in the Middle East is far from encouraging. If to all this we add the fact that the Foreign Offices of many countries have been more active than ever in negotiating agreements, mainly of a regional type, to serve as bulwarks against aggression, we can hardly say with conviction that there has been any great relaxation of world tension since peace in Indo-China was agreed upon in Geneva. My delegation is, of course, glad that hostilities have ceased in Indo-China.
3.	Similarly, in 1953, there were great hopes that the world situation would improve after the conclusion of the Korean armistice. Why, then, have the peace negotiations in Korea and Indo-China failed to achieve the good results expected of them in the way of relaxation of international tension? It may be that world peace is contingent upon more weighty matters and that, until such questions are settled at higher levels, nothing can wholly succeed in allaying the fears of the world. The armistices achieved in Korea and Indo-China are no more than petty and partial solutions within a problem of far greater magnitude. Such achievements are worthless so long as the graver problems threatening world peace are left unsolved.
4.	Nevertheless, in the midst of these problems a ray of hope has appeared in the unanimous agreement to study the proposal of the President of the United States of America relating to the use of atomic energy for peaceful purposes. This beginning of an acceptance by the Soviet Union may open a practical and sure way to future negotiations on the problem of the use of atomic energy in war. This hope was strengthened by the speech made by the Soviet Union representative on 30 September in this hall [484th meeting]. Let us hope that when in due course his proposals are put into clear and concrete form they will constitute an unequivocal step towards an understanding with the Western Powers on a problem whose solution is a matter of concern to us all.
5.	A matter which is closely linked to the maintenance of international peace and security — and hence of capital importance to us all — is the report [A/2713] submitted to the General Assembly by the Collective Measures Committee on the session which it held this year. As everyone knows, this subsidiary body was entrusted with the difficult task of studying ways and means of strengthening the capacity of the United Nations to maintain peace. The organization of collective resistance against aggression is naturally of paramount importance in this connexion. The Committee has this year drawn up a series of general principles whose application by the United Nations it considers both useful and necessary in the matter of collective action. In formulating these principles the Committee was particularly careful to establish safeguards to guarantee the absolute independence of States and their freedom of action in taking part in any future collective action for the maintenance of peace.
6.	International peace and security do not, however, rest solely upon the settlement of political problems but also on the solution of the problem of eliminating the causes of want among nations, in which economic problems play a large part. We may point out in this connexion, that in recent times economic progress in the different parts of the world has been very unequal. We are certainly pleased to see the fine recovery the majority of the industrialized countries have made, especially those which had to face the acute problems of post-war reconstruction.
7.	With a few exceptions, however, the underdeveloped countries are still struggling with vast problems and it cannot be said that up to the present they have received the broad and positive assistance that their individual efforts deserve. I venture to say that although international public opinion may be conscious of them, the problems of the under-developed countries are not yet receiving the necessary attention.
8.	It cannot be too often emphasized that the welfare of all is, like peace, indivisible, for any international structure based on the radical difference between the standard of living of the developed countries and that of the under-developed countries will always be vulnerable. The economic needs of the under-developed countries have been clearly stated, both in the United Nations and its specialized agencies and at various regional meetings. The under-developed countries need stable and fair prices for their exports, a sure market without the disturbing shadow of possible restrictions, and international financial and technical co-operation. During this session, the Assembly should give prior consideration to the problems connected with the public and private financing of economic development. My delegation’s attitude towards these problems has already been stated.
9.	On the matter of private capital Venezuela has maintained, and continues to maintain, a clear-cut policy: private foreign capital is fully safeguarded by the State within the framework of our legislation. The maintenance of this favourable atmosphere and the absence of any restrictions on the free flow of capital and interest are effective contributions which we offer as a capital-importing country. We have always felt, however, that this action should be supplemented on the part of the capital-exporting countries by the adoption of measures tending gradually to decrease and eliminate the burden of taxation with which the income derived from these foreign investments is encumbered.
10.	A flow of healthy capital investments which do not drive out the undertakings already working with technical and administrative efficiency in the country of investment but lead to the establishment of new sources of production which would be difficult to operate with national financial and technical resources would in many cases be a valuable contribution to the efforts the under-developed countries are making to improve the standard of living of their peoples. The greater part of the foreign investments in my country are of the type I have just mentioned. To this fact, and to the Venezuelan Government’s co-operation, we can to a great extent ascribe the atmosphere of confidence end security which has become traditional in Venezuela in this connexion.
11.	Nevertheless, although the contribution of private capital is important, we do not feel that the problems connected with the foreign financing of economic development should be viewed solely from this angle. There are many projects in the under-developed countries which do not offer much attraction to private capital; again there are others which may not be suitable for capital; lastly, there are projects of great national interest which require a type of financing on conditions of time and interest winch cannot be offered by present foreign investment sources, either private or public.
12.	It is for this reason that we feel that the proposals for the establishment of a fund for economic development and of an international finance corporation are of undoubted merit. Consequently, we have always supported any recommendation made for the establishment of such bodies. As is known, these recommendations are directed specially towards the countries which have the greatest capacity for contribution, so that they may continue to study the possibility of giving definite support to such necessary instruments of economic development.
13.	While speaking of economic matters, I do not wish to overlook one fact which I consider to be of great importance to our Organization’s work: I refer to the setting up by the Economic and Social Council [resolution 557 F (XVIII)] of a permanent advisory commission on international commodity trade. As a member of the Economic and Social Council my country supported the establishment of that body because we considered that its activities would be of great value for the proper consideration of the important problems of international trade.
14.	Lastly, I feel that the concern with which the United Nations and the various regional bodies are studying the main economic problems of the underdeveloped countries and suggesting solutions to them is highly encouraging. It is with great interest that my country has followed the work done by the Economic Commission for Latin America, some of which will be of value in the discussions of the Conference of Finance Ministers that is to take place in Rio de Janeiro in November of this year, at which the American States are to study the main economic problems affecting the countries of that area.
15.	A well constructed programme of technical assistance as an expression of international economic cooperation will always be an effective contribution to the general improvement of countries in process of development. In fact, at this year’s sessions the Economic and Social Council has reorganized the Expanded Programme of Technical Assistance, the main virtue of the new system being that the granting of technical assistance will be co-ordinated with the national plans prepared by the respective governments. This reorganization has been made possible by the fact that, as the Expanded Programme prospered, governments have submitted better co-ordinated plans.
16.	It is from this type of international co-operation that the countries in process of development are perhaps obtaining the most obvious results. That is why the Venezuelan Government is using technical assistance to help in the carrying out of the vast development programme which is now fully under way and which includes, among other undertakings, the setting up of an iron and steel industry, the maximum development of hydroelectric resources, the development of the national railway system, irrigation works, increased construction of popular housing projects, and, generally speaking, all types of work designed to raise the standard of living of the Venezuelan people — an indispensable basis for the social advancement of any community.
17.	As regards the problem of the Non-Self-Governing and Trust Territories, the Charter shows how their legitimate development is to be guaranteed by their economic, social and educational advancement, which will of necessity lead to their political advancement, Perhaps the most effective thing that Member States can do at the present stage is to try above all to strengthen those bases of political prosperity and for this purpose to examine the recommendations of the Trusteeship Council and the Committee on Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories, with the firm intention of co-operating effectively in meeting both the traditional needs of such Territories and the new needs which will arise as the result of the advancement of these peoples. We must, of course, perform this duty in the firm conviction that these Territories are part of our world. We must remedy their ills in the spirit of Chapters IX and X of the Charter, adhering, that is, to the concept that national or local prosperity is beneficial and legitimate only when it contributes to the welfare of the world.
18.	This year we have an excellent basis for doing good work on the Non-Self-Governing Territories in the report [A/2729] on economic conditions in those Territories submitted by the Sub-Committee of the Committee on Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories. Paragraph 110 of this important document refers to the setting up of the Commission on International Commodity Trade and to the work of that body, to which I have already referred. This is additional evidence of the great value of such a commission in making an active contribution to the solution of important political problems, which in many cases arise from economic factors-and particularly from the trade in basic commodities, from which the Non-Self-Governing Territories gain their livelihood.
19.	It is to be hoped that these and other fundamental problems will be considered and solved in a true spirit of co-operation at this session of the General Assembly. It is in this spirit that my delegation is attending this session, as it has always attended the various meetings of the United Nations. The Venezuelan Government has shown the same spirit of co-operation in making available the necessary facilities for holding important regional conferences in Venezuela, the most recent being the Tenth Inter-American Conference held this year at Caracas. The enthusiasm and zeal with which my Government contributed to the holding of the important session of that body, which is the highest organ of the Organization of American States, is well known.
20.	Mr. President, you have been elected President of this session of the General Assembly because of your personal merits and qualities. My delegation is happy to congratulate you on your well-deserved election and is sure that your experience, tact and equanimity will be the determining factors in making the deliberations upon which we are now embarking prove fruitful for our countries and for the United Nations itself.


===== Session 10 - 1955 =====
1. The General Assembly is beginning its tenth session at a time when the world is cherishing firm hopes after the decade of fear and anxiety which succeeded the Second World War. As has been recognized here, these hopes are today based primarily on the possibility of an understanding between the great Powers.
2.	Two events of exceptional importance took place shortly before this session — the commemoration at San Francisco of the tenth anniversary of the signing of the Charter, and the Geneva Conference between the Heads of Government of the four great Powers. It is thus scarcely three months since the Member States, meeting in San Francisco, unanimously confirmed their desire to continue using the United Nations as a centre for co-ordinating all their efforts for the achievement of the purposes laid down in the Charter. The Conference of the four great Powers in Geneva is the other happy omen to which I would like to refer. Geneva must be the starting point for the fulfilment of our hopes by the discovery of a solution for the vast problems of the world which will bring relief to anxious humanity.
3.	At the last session of the General Assembly, my delegation stated [487th meeting] that if the negotiations on Korea and Indo-China had not produced the beneficial results expected of them in the way of relaxing international tension, it was perhaps because world peace depended on more powerful factors which needed to be reconciled at higher levels before any real progress could be made. My delegation added that Korea and Indo-China were but partial solutions of a much wider problem, and that tension would continue if there was no settlement of matters which were perhaps of even greater import for the attainment of the supreme ideal of peace which we all long for. The present relaxation of international tension, the causes of which are common knowledge, confirms what my delegation stated then.
4.	In times of anxiety, people are inclined, in their longing for better days, to over-estimate the importance of whatever seems to them to be favourable. For example, they are now perhaps attributing an exaggerated significance to what took place at Geneva. Nevertheless, whatever their importance, the results obtained were undoubtedly favourable. The best plan, therefore, is for all of us, great, medium and small countries, to build upon this positive achievement, however small it may be, and to be guided by what is known as the "spirit of Geneva” so as not to destroy the conciliatory attitude of the great Powers which took part in those discussions. In other words, we must not let indifference, or even incredulity, prevent the seeds sown by the great Powers from bearing fruit.
5.	This tenth session of the General Assembly is the forum at which the international community will submit the “spirit of Geneva” to its first test. Our agenda offers sufficient opportunities for the conciliatory words exchanged at the Geneva talks to be translated into deeds. Today the peoples are not content with mere words; they have hoped so much, despaired so much, that they have a right to something more. Naturally, if we are at all realistic, we must not hope for too much from the Assembly in this regard. Indeed, for obvious reasons, it is not yet in the General Assembly that we can settle some of the major problems on which world peace now depends; these must be settled in smaller meetings. As has often been pointed out — and we repeat it with some bitterness — this is one of the weakest points of the Organization. It is therefore the imperative task of the Assembly to mobilize all the resources it has to facilitate the task of those who will in fact have to settle these problems.
6.	An agenda item which provides a unique opportunity for applying the “spirit of Geneva” is that concerning the admission of new Members. Here, may I state in passing that my delegation is extremely pleased to note that Spain has applied for membership of the Organization, and will support that application enthusiastically. The United Nations can no longer turn a deaf ear to the general demand that it should open its doors to many countries that are well qualified to enter. My delegation agrees with those who have pointed out that a State’s qualifications for joining the United Nations should be determined on the basis of the Charter alone, and that the will of one Member, enjoying the privilege of the veto, should not impede the entry of a State that possesses all the requisites laid down in the Charter.
7.	For that reason, many of those who do not want a revision of the Charter would apparently agree to it provided it were limited to the abolition of the veto as applied to the admission of new Members.
8.	These considerations lead my delegation to a brief reflection on another of the. most important items on the Assembly's agenda: the proposal that a general conference should be called for the purpose of reviewing the Charter. We believe that this review, so wisely provided for by the authors of the Charter, should be carried out at San Francisco, in 1945, no one could think that the Charter was going to be an immutable instrument; on the contrary, a glance at Chapter XVIII suffices to show that the authors thought that revision was not only possible but necessary. Moreover, the experience gained during the past decade has shown that the factors and circumstances which influenced the drawing up of the Charter have changed so much that revision is now essential.
9.	Nevertheless, if we are to be realistic and objective, we shall have to take into account the rigid machinery which the Charter itself has established by making the veto applicable to any proposal for revision. We shall then see that this privilege will automatically paralyse any effort to amend the Charter which is not to the liking of any of the Members which can exercise it. The conclusion is obvious: the Charter cannot be amended except with the complete agreement of the five permanent members of the Security Council. And such agreement can be achieved only when international tension has relaxed to a sufficient degree, my delegation feels that the General Assembly should approve the calling of the general conference provided for in the Charter, but has some doubts about the wisdom of fixing a date for it forthwith.
10.	Great hopes have been raised by the decision of the great Powers to exchange information and to place at the disposal of all peoples their resources and knowledge regarding the possibilities offered by the peaceful uses of atomic energy. Everyone is keenly interested in the breadth and importance of the knowledge already acquired in this field, and the International Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy, held in August 1955, was proof of the progress achieved.
11.	The conclusions reached by the Conference on the use of atomic energy in medicine, hygiene and agriculture, as also on its unlimited possibilities in scientific investigation, were most encouraging. We must also recognize that the general enthusiasm did not deflect the Conference from its constructive and realistic approach, especially with regard to the possible industrial uses of atomic energy. Sir John Cockroft, the Vice-President of the Conference, gave eloquent testimony of that commendable caution when he summed up as follows some of the conclusions of the papers which had been presented: “... most of the next decade will be occupied in laying a sound basis from which nuclear power can expand rapidly to become in the end the major power source of the world. Until we have achieved satisfactory operating experience, we will not be justified in embarking on a more rapid expansion... The important point is to obtain an additional source of energy to our conventional energy resources where they are becoming overstrained” [A/2967, para. 18].
12.	The goal to be sought in the industrial field is to supplement, not replace, existing sources of energy, to add one more element without decreasing the use of present resources, thus increasing the abundance of power sources on which the prosperity and the future development of humanity depend.
13.	My delegation believes that the reasons for hope which have emerged in the political field, and about which so much is said, will take on a stable and lasting character only if they are backed, among other things by a clear determination on the part of States to co-operate in the economic and social fields. It is no use adopting formulae for solving political problems if we do nothing about economic and social problems.
14.	In this respect there are certain encouraging signs within the United Nations. Not the least of these is the efficient work being done by the Economic and Social Council, as also by its functional and regional commissions, and the tendency in the Council for decisions on economic questions to be adopted by a large majority, and often unanimously. This shows that the idea of isolated action by States is giving way to a growing realization that desires and interests must be reconciled, and that the notion of interdependence is ceasing to be a theoretical principle and is becoming a living and vital force. All this is conducive to a happy understanding on the part of both the under-developed and the highly industrialized countries.
15.	One of the tasks which the United Nations must carry out with great determination in the economic field is the full development of the potentialities of the under-developed countries. Here lies the great wealth of the future. Universal culture and material progress will be incalculably assisted when these vast regions arc fully incorporated in the process of contemporary civilization. National action and determination are of course necessary for this work of incorporation. But this national action and determination will certainly fail if they are not effectively supported by the international community.
16.	Here is a wide field, with incalculable possibilities, open to the action of the highly industrialized countries. Such action, moreover, viewed in its entirety, is bound to have favourable reactions for those countries themselves.
17.	The coincidence of the interests of the under developed countries with those of the highly industrialized countries is a fact which is by now fully recognized. The economic position of the under-developed countries greatly influences the economic life of the others. Their prosperity is prosperity of all.
18.	The economic process achieved before the Second World War did not yield all the results that might have been expected, because a large sector of humanity was left out of the picture. One of the reasons that international trade did not expand as it should have done was that the income of many of the underdeveloped countries was always far too meagre, and their economies were virtually stagnant. The economic welfare of the under-developed countries is also the economic welfare of the highly industrialized countries To raise the standard of living in the large underdeveloped areas is to build a firm foundation for economic progress in the more highly developed countries.
19.	The effective contribution of the highly industrialized countries towards the improvement of conditions in the under-developed countries cannot be underestimated. The economic policy followed by the former countries will always have favourable or unfavourable repercussions on the latter; hence the great responsibility borne by the highly industrialized countries.
20.	In this connexion, the last report on the work economic situation, which the Economic and Soda Council studied at its twentieth session, states the following: “The more dominant the position of a country as an influence on international markets, the greater its responsibility. One of the phases of responsibility concerns the avoidance of policies which are harmful to the interests of other countries. A country cannot be expected to ignore its own interests, but these include promotion of a thriving world economy — in which every country benefits.”
21. It should be pointed out that it is not only the representatives of the underdeveloped countries that hold this view. Authoritative spokesmen in the highly developed countries themselves have also firmly upheld the thesis that economic power entails corresponding responsibility. It is on the universal recognition of this principle of economic responsibility and on the determination with which plans for the economic development of the underdeveloped countries are carried out that we must place our hopes for more stable foundations for future world economy.
22. Although my delegation considers that the tremendous possibilities of economic co-operation have only been partially explored, we should like to point out that, in our view, serious, and to a certain extent encouraging, efforts have been made since the end of the ninth session of the General Assembly. The recent revision of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, in which new provisions have been inserted favouring countries in the process of development, the good progress made towards the establishment of the international Finance Corporation, the resolutions adopted by the Economic and Social Council to encourage inter-regional trade, and, on the American continent, the activities carried out by the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Inter-American economic and Social Council, the holding of the Inter- American Investment Conference in New Orleans and the approval by the United States Congress of a three-year extension of the Reciprocal Trade Act —  all these how that the nations are really resolved on economic o-operation.
23.	This trend must be intensified in the future. The economic prosperity made possible by the relaxation of political tensions and the use of new technological resources must be a prosperity of the open circle, from which no section of mankind is excluded.
24.	Social progress is a normal concomitant of economic progress or, in other words, there is an intimate correlation and interdependence between economic and social development. Indeed, the intellectual, moral and cultural conditions of a people reach a high standard when its material conditions are improved.
25.	That is how my Government sees it. And that is why, as we carry out an ambitious programme of economic development, so we are giving equal attention to social development in all its aspects — cheap housing, mass education, full protection for the worker, hygiene and nutrition. No aspect lies outside our vast progressive action. Thus, by combining economic, social and moral progress, my Government is contributing as effectively as possible to the improvement of the level of living of our people and to the creation of a dignified and vigorous nation.
26.	My delegation attaches particular importance to the problem of Non-Self-Governing Territories and Trust Territories. In accordance with the Charter, we must see that through economic, social, educational and political progress they achieve full self-government. Everyone is aware of the zeal and even the obstinacy with which these problems are sometimes discussed in the United Nations, but we are confident that during the present session there will be sufficient co-operation to ensure that those territories are allowed to advance, without undue haste but without interruption, towards the attainment of their independence.
27.	I should not like to end without conveying to the President my delegation’s sincere congratulations on his election. We are sure that his qualifications are such that, under his skilful direction, this Assembly will make an important contribution to international peace and security.

===== Session 11 - 1956 =====
In taking part in this general debate, I am happy to pay my respects to Prince Wan Waithayakon, a renowned figure in the United Nations by reason of his experience and eminent qualities and the distinguished representative of a country which has always expended its best efforts in the cause of peace. In expressing its satisfaction at his election, the Venezuelan delegation is certain that under his skillful leadership the eleventh session of the General Assembly will find a successful solution for the important and complex problems before it.
131.	The admission of new States to the United Nations is of special significance. My delegation is very pleased to note that this Assembly has been joined by the representatives of those States, some of which are linked to us by ancient and cordial ties of friendship. We are confident that we can expect a useful contribution from these new Members.
132.	We are beginning our labours in the midst of great concern about the events which the world has witnessed during the last few weeks. We can state that in the eleven years of its existence the United Nations has never passed through such a severe trial as during the last few days, when there has been imminent danger of a complete break-down of international peace and security. But I firmly believe that the prompt action taken by the Organization has succeeded in establishing an international police force which will stop any conflict in the Middle East, the scene of so much unrest in recent times.
133.	World public opinion has watched our proceedings closely and has seen in the United Nations the proper means for securing the peace for which it longs. It has been thought, perhaps rightly, that the implementation of the measures taken by this Assembly will depend on the strength of the nations which support them. We should not let this discourage us; on the contrary, if the countries of limited military power, which represent the majority, act together within this Organization, they will always constitute a moral force in international policy which the Governments of the other countries cannot disregard.
134.	The United Nations is day by day assuming greater responsibilities, since it is a gathering point for world problems, many of which are difficult to solve because they conceal interests which are guarded by the might of great States. At other times, legitimate national aspirations clash with legitimate international obligations. Owing to the inherent defects of the Organization itself and the constitutional errors by which a few of its Members have been allowed privileges, to the detriment of the principle of the legal equality of States, the United Nations has been obliged to postpone substantive decisions in questions which are of fundamental importance for the attainment of the objectives proposed at San Francisco.
135.	Despite those errors, these problems could be Solved if there were, as there should be, mutual confidence among all the Member States. Such confidence, a result of the mutual respect which we owe each other, would make it much easier to take positive and helpful decisions for our peoples. We represent seventy-nine Governments, which are the political expression of seventy-nine States. If we unite our efforts, we shall attain the goal at which we aim.
136.	It is true that the United Nations does not possess all the means for maintaining international peace and security which are provided in the Charter, but when necessary its decisions have received sufficient support to stop coercive action taken outside the Organization. Consequently no other methods should be resorted to for the settlement of international disputes. There exists a complete system of peaceful means of settlement which are recognized by international law and confirmed by the Charter. If there were confidence in these peaceful means, and if the Members of the United Nations were prepared to take disinterested, collective action, there would be no difficulty in settling disputes between States.
137.	For this reason, the American nations have acted in complete accord in the two cases upon which the attention of the world has been concentrated in the last few days. Thanks to long experience, our continent today possesses a regional juridical system of rules and principles which is so objective that it has even Served as a model for international law as a whole. From the time of Bolivar, the Liberator, to the present day, illustrious sons of our countries have worked to perfect the inter-American system. Barely fifty years ago, when excessive financial indemnities were forcibly demanded of my country, the American continent rebelled against that imposition and echoed the calm and resolute words of Luis Maria Drago, author of one of the noblest doctrines ever to enrich the corpus of American international law. For us it is a fundamental principle that no nation, whatever its geographic situation or political creed, may arrogate to itself the right to judge other peoples in their domestic affairs.
138.	These are sufficient reasons to make my delegation act objectively in these cases. Venezuela, in the person of its Liberator, contributed to the independence of other countries, so that by history and tradition it is opposed to any form of intervention, from whatever source, and to any act against the political independence and territorial integrity of a State.
139.	The Government and people of Venezuela were deeply shocked by the action of the Soviet forces against Hungary, concerning which my delegation gave its views in the meetings of the General Assembly at which the tragic fate that has overtaken the brave Hungarian people was discussed. The unjustifiable intervention to which that country, with its noble cultural traditions, has been subjected has shaken the civilized world, which in one way or another has shown its sympathy for Hungary’s aspirations towards independence. Moreover, side by side with the efforts made to win for this people the right of self-determination, many States, moved by humanitarian impulses, have taken steps to relieve the need and suffering which prevail in Hungary today.
140.	In connexion with these plans for relief, I should like to inform the Assembly once again that the Government of Venezuela, as an expression of its, sympathy and solidarity with the Hungarian people, has decided to help towards the alleviation of their sufferings by admitting a total of 1,500 refugees to Venezuela and by granting the equivalent of $50,000 to be Spent in a manner already announced officially to the Secretary-General [A/3405].
141.	It is essential that the United Nations should undertake a searching analysis of the conditions which result in such disturbances as those I have described. The economic and social development of nations should be a fundamental concern of the international community. After restoring peace in the Middle East, it would be well for us to try and solve the political problems of that important area by making a thorough study of the causes of the disturbances there.
142.	In view of the various conflicting interests, the work of the United Nations would be very limited if it were to do no more than deal with the more obvious manifestations of international conflicts. Even as far back as the San Francisco Conference it was thought that, besides taking corrective action in critical situations, the United Nations should engage in more far-reaching action to resolve difficulties in the very sphere where they arise. To achieve this end, over and above the security functions with which the United Nations was endowed for the maintenance and, if necessary, the restoration of peace, principles of lasting validity were established for the wellbeing and stability of the world. This action was described, in the words of the Charter itself, as “necessary” for peaceful and friendly relations among nations. The promotion of well-being, in its various forms, appeared to the founders of the United Nations to be the most effective way of dealing with international disturbances. This is the most promising and dynamic function which the United Nations can perform.
143.	That is how the Government which I have the honour to represent understands the matter. Its efforts to promote human welfare, in both the domestic and the international sphere, are well known. At the national level, desirous of promoting the well-being of the population Mr. Marcos Perez Jimenez, the President of Venezuela, has taken resolute steps to bring about, within a short time, a fundamental transformation in the economic, social and cultural life of Venezuela.
144.	In the international field, the Government of Venezuela, is convinced that the achievement of human Welfare in its various forms will contribute effectively to creating a spirit of solidarity and peaceful relations among peoples; that it why it has co-operated indefatigably in all plans for the attainment of those objectives. Quite recently, during the meeting in Panama of the Heads of State of the American republics, the President of Venezuela proposed the creation of an inter-American economic fund to be devoted entirely to the most urgent needs connected with the welfare of the inhabitants of our continent. In so doing, the Government of Venezuela was inspired not only by the lofty principles of co-operation which characterize the inter-American system, but also by those upon which the United Nations is based.
145.	My delegation is of the opinion that the United Nations has not exploited all the possibilities of cooperation in the economic and social Adds. The fact of interdependence is certainly well understood by now, but it has not yet become a living, active force. Vast regions with undoubted possibilities for development are still awaiting the life-giving spark of technical knowledge and the necessary capital investment. In other regions there is some uncertainty about trade. All would benefit by collective action aimed at the complete development of their existing resources.
146.	The total wealth of mankind in the economic, social and cultural fields would reach unsuspected heights if dense populations of the under-developed regions could be finally incorporated into the rhythm of contemporary civilization and its standards of living. The Very fate of mankind is at stake here, and although it is true that this work of incorporation calls for action and good will at the national level, it is also true that this action and good will will fail if they are not backed up by the sincere encouragement and the effective and united support of the international community.
147.	One of the questions to which the Government of Venezuela has paid most attention has been that of the peaceful uses of atomic energy. Today, when the agency proposed by President Eisenhower has become a reality, when nuclear energy placed at the service of men may free men from the fear in which they have been living, when the transformation of this terrible power of destruction into a constructive force can bring untold benefits to humanity, we should all work together to achieve those objectives.
148.	The Venezuelan delegation expressed itself in those terms at the recent Conference on the Statutes of the International Atomic Energy Agency in this very hall, and I am pleased to confirm its views before the General Assembly today. All the delegations represented at that conference were able to appreciate the objective of international co-operation that inspires the Government of my country. My Government is taking special interest in the research work now being done in the national institutes which were set up for that purpose, with the object not only of improving the health and meeting the needs of the Venezuelan people, but also of meeting the requests of other countries which may ask for scientific and technical co-operation.
149.	Venezuela is taking part in this eleventh session of the General Assembly with the sincere purpose of co-operating in all fields in which efforts are being made to enable mankind to enjoy a lasting atmosphere of peace.


===== Session 12 - 1957 =====
Venezuela is attending the present session of the General Assembly with undiminished faith in the guiding principles of the United Nations. It does so with the conviction that at the present critical stage in world affairs effective action by the United Nations is more than ever necessary.
107.	Member States look to the United Nations, which emerged from the chaos of the Second World War, to discharge the heavy responsibility of safeguarding the rights of peoples in such a way as to ensure that clashes of interests and reliance on force, which lead to conflicts, are replaced by the rule of law. The fact that it has not succeeded in solving all the problems confronting it has in no way undermined the status and high ideals of the United Nations for it is still the supreme embodiment of the desire of nations to develop their international relations in accordance with legal concepts.
108.	Unfortunately, as a result of the extraordinary upheavals of the last world war and of the conflicting ideologies which have divided the world into opposing camps, anomalous and dangerous situations still exist. Among others, we have the eloquent examples of Germany, still divided, Hungary, subjugated by a foreign Power, and the Middle East in a state of tension - a source of concern to us all. It is clear that not only have we failed to achieve peace but the "cold war" has been succeeded by a war of manoeuvre which is much more serious. Consequently, the attainment of the legitimate aspirations of the peoples has been overshadowed by a more urgent and pressing need, that of international security.
109.	However, such a state of affairs does not mean that we do not recognize the justice of these aspirations. The agenda of the present session shows clearly the interest that has been aroused by these matters of unquestionable importance to the lives of nations. The discussion of the various items will surely lead to a reaffirmation of the principles upon which the Organization is founded, and we can safely predict that with the goodwill of the participants we shall make an appreciable step forward towards our aims of friendship and security among States.
110.	Among the items on the agenda the question of disarmament is by far the most important. It has recently been the subject of detailed deliberations; a reasonable solution to this problem will remove many of the obstacles now impeding the peaceful coexistence of States. Although no agreement has yet been reached, the material produced provides a basis for the clarification of ideas and the legitimate hopes of peoples everywhere for a proper settlement of the armaments problem.
111.	At this session of the General Assembly we have heard optimistic assertions by several representatives of authority that the conference held in London was not a complete failure. Such views are very gratifying to us all since they keep alive the hope that the world will eventually return to peace and mutual understanding.
112.	In referring to disarmament as a basic problem whose solution will release from fear the nations now living under the constant threat of war, I should like to express my warm support for the proposal [A/3630 and Corr.1] submitted to the Assembly by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Belgium. This proposal is aimed at acquainting the peoples of the world by every possible means with the enormous destructive power of modern weapons and with the danger of complete and immediate annihilation which a nuclear war would bring to mankind. Such knowledge will of course bring agony of mind but it will in the end strengthen the movement of public opinion in favour of disarmament agreements which will free the world from fear and bring about an atmosphere of peace and security.
113.	We are glad to note that as much attention has been given to the problem of ways and means of giving effect to the peoples' will for peace as to the analysis of the factors involved in the armaments race.
114.	This year we have succeeded in bringing into being an international agency designed to ensure that the immense potentialities which science has opened up in the vast field of atomic energy will be directed towards peaceful ends. The efforts made by the various States towards the establishment of such an agency, culminating in the entry into force of its statute, are evidence of their unshakable determination that the potentialities of the atom shall be utilized for worthy purposes. In this way they have supported the initiative shown by President Eisenhower when, on that memorable occasion, he explained to the General Assembly [470th meeting] the need to ensure that the forces which cause such anxiety to the peoples of the world are put to constructive uses.
115.	The considerable progress made by international co-operation in recent years has profoundly changed the traditional mode of diplomacy, once the reflection of the isolation in which, until a short time ago, States lived. Modern diplomacy is inspired by a new concept of human solidarity; it is based on that interchange of ideas, opinions, goods and, in short, all the benefits of civilization, which is the most beneficial result of the improvement and growth of communications.
116.	At the same time, the Government of Venezuela feels that, although considerable progress has been made in this direction, international co-operation proper, that is, co-operation which brings tangible benefits for all concerned, leaves much to be desired. Indeed, so far, much of this action has been bogged down in recommendations, projects and suggestions - in short in a mass of words which have no real effect. The best theories and the wisest heads are of little avail if the determination to put ideas into practice is lacking.
117.	From a careful study of the international situation it is evident that in the society of nations as in that of individuals there is only one practical method of tackling the difficulties that arise from the existence of backward or insufficiently developed communities which lack the bare necessities of subsistence, not to speak of development - rational study of the problems involved and the effective application of the appropriate solutions. In our domestic affairs, in order to ensure that no one in our respective countries lacks the essentials of life, we fight against poverty, ignorance and disease by making provision in our national budgets for allocations to cover expenditure on health, education, housing, etc.
118.	Any careful observer knows full well that one of the most direct ways of securing the enjoyment and exercise of human rights - a subject which the United Nations has included in its annual agenda for several years - is to satisfy men’s basic needs. It is pointless to speak of human rights when men are not given the means of earning better wages and when their families lack proper housing, schools, welfare services and all those facilities which enable them to lead a healthy social life. The fundamental right of the individual is the right to live and, undoubtedly, the failure to satisfy these vital needs, sometimes bordering on sheer indifference, amounts in fact, to put it crudely, to granting men only the miserable right to die of hunger.
119.	The international community must take steps to improve this situation. Its most noble task would be to determine how the prosperous States may satisfy the most pressing needs of other States in those fields where timely assistance may be decisive for their development.
120.	Believing that this is undoubtedly the best way of giving practical expression to the term "international solidarity", General Marcos Pérez Jiménez, President of Venezuela, proposed to the American nations represented at Panama by their Heads of State, the establishment of an economic fund made up of contributions from all the members of the regional organization and designed to solve the most pressing problems of the American continent. I wish to repeat here, before the General Assembly of the United Nations, the conviction then expressed that prosperity cannot be achieved "without the participation of all or without the application of practical and’ effective measures". I would like to state again that the Government of Venezuela is ready to participate in undertakings that are designed to bring positive benefits to mankind by raising their moral, intellectual and material standards and promoting their development and welfare.
121.	As this specific aim is the same as that underlying the proposed Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development, whose establishment is to be considered again at the present session, I am pleased to state that Venezuela views this project with particular interest and supports it wholeheartedly. In doing so it hopes that the Fund will also receive the full support of the great economic powers. My country is convinced that one of the best possible contributions to the work of the United Nations will be to ensure that this proposal really becomes effective.
122.	I have great pleasure in announcing to this Assembly that Venezuela will vote in favor of the decision to establish a Special United Nations Fund for Economic Development and is ready to contribute its share towards the implementation of the experimental projects listed in resolution 662 B (XXIV) of the Economic and Social Council and of the various projects which the Fund will undertake once it is established. In supporting the establishment of the Fund and in declaring our readiness to contribute financially towards its operation, we are following our traditional policy of giving a firm backing to realistic plans for human welfare.
123.	So far, international economic co-operation has been more theoretical than practical. Within the United Nations, the technical studies prepared by experts and the research carried out by the secretariats of the regional economic commissions are of course excellent. But we must add to them fruitful, effective and technically-planned action.
124.	The establishment of a fund for economic development will reinforce the activities of existing organizations. It will not conflict with any of them, but rather complement them. Nor will it interfere with the flow of private capital; on the contrary, by helping to improve the social and economic infrastructure of the under-developed countries, it will create the conditions necessary for the investment of private capital.
125.	We are well aware that, so far, certain difficulties have prevented the Fund from being established. However, I do not think that they should discourage us. According to the recommendation made by the Economic and Social Council to the General Assembly, an initial phase of an experimental nature and of modest proportions is contemplated, which may provide invaluable experience for the United Nations. We hope that all countries will contribute to this brave experiment. Perhaps the most important reflection that we can make when confronted with these new plans is to think not how much it will cost us to establish the Fund but how much it will cost us not to establish it.
126.	The encouraging results of other plans for international co-operation under the auspices of the United Nations strengthen our conviction that success will attend any activities which receive the wholehearted support of all Member States. The technical assistance programmes of the United Nations, which have been described as the greatest and most durable of its achievements, are proof of this fact. My Government has supported these programmes unreservedly.
127.	Although economic, social and cultural development has always been and is now the primary responsibility of the individual countries themselves, the technical assistance programmes serve the highly useful purpose of supplementing and strengthening the action taken at the national level. No country can claim to be self-sufficient in all fields of knowledge and technology. Perhaps in the future no country will ever be entirely self-sufficient. By sharing their experiences with others, nations can increase the common patrimony of humanity to the advantage of all. In recognition of this truth, Venezuela is ready to continue to support these programmes.
128.	In Venezuela itself we have felt it appropriate to associate the United Nations technical assistance programmes, albeit to a limited extent, with the most important of our economic development projects and with certain of our principal social and cultural activities. This co-operation has been particularly useful in the mechanisation of our agriculture, in industrial training and in the formulation and execution of our bold plans for the transformation of our physical surroundings and for the over-all development of our economic potentialities in such fields as electrification, railways, and the iron and steel and petro-chemical industries.
129.	May I also mention, finally, the assistance given by the Economic Commission for Latin America in the organization of an intensive training course on economic development problems inaugurated recently at Caracas from which we expect very satisfactory results.
130.	On several occasions in the past, the Government of Venezuela has stressed the danger which arises from interference by international organizations in the inviolable sphere of domestic affairs, in complete defiance of the wishes expressed on defining their terms of reference, by the States which founded them.
131.	Once again my country records its opposition to this undesirable trend which, if not corrected, is liable to endanger the very lives of these bodies. Indeed, if international organizations are to act effectively and discharge their duties fully, they must bear in mind that they were created by sovereign states and that they must always give the correct interpretation to that expression without limiting its real meaning in any way. We must avoid the risk that Member States, seeing what they consider rightly to be inviolable - their autonomy, their freedom and their independence - being endangered, may prefer to withdraw from these organizations.
132.	In conclusion, I should like to convey to the President my warmest congratulations upon his well-earned election to the Presidency, and at the same time to congratulate the Secretary-General on the extension of his term of office, in recognition of the good work he has already accomplished. I express the most sincere hopes for the success of the present session of the General Assembly which has opened in a spirit of good will which augurs well for the future.


===== Session 13 - 1958 =====
21.	It is a high honour for me and also a source of personal satisfaction to address you from this world rostrum as the spokesman of a Government and people who are today firm in their resolve to stand as zealous and democratic defenders of the cause of liberty and civilization. As Venezuelan Minister of Foreign Affairs and Chairman of the Venezuelan delegation to the thirteenth session of the General Assembly, I am pleased to affirm that my country is now definitely following paths leading towards the establishment of institutions based on the principles for whose safeguard the United Nations was founded. I can also state that the years of violence and anguish now definitely belong to the past. That era, which was so rightly condemned and criticized, is now ended and all that is good and permanent in Venezuela has once more come to the fore.
22.	The widespread changes that have taken place in Venezuela since 23 January 1958 are reflected in the standards on which its foreign policy is now based. We reject as contradictory and Incongruous the behaviour of a Government which, using self-seeking propaganda, conceals a contrast between theory and practice such that it dares to adopt before foreigners attitudes opposed to those which it assumes towards its own citizens. Fortunately so gross a confusion of fact is always transitory and in some way or other such false positions are eventually doomed to collapse.
23.	When the Government which I represent declares that Venezuela has aligned itself with the democratic countries which respect human dignity and countenance no kind of oppression, this is not false propaganda but the declaration of a truth deeply felt by the Venezuelan people and based on indisputable moral authority. As the representative of a country completely devoted to democratic principles and therefore opposed to all forms of tyranny and absolutism prejudicial to human dignity, I should like to refer to some of the more serious problems that are to be considered by this world parliament during its current session.
24.	I share the opinion of those who have stated from this rostrum that the present Assembly has opened in one of the most disquieting moments in all history. This makes it necessary for us to be fully aware of the magnitude of our responsibilities. Our task is not only to study the problems before us in an atmosphere of calm reflection but also to find, through firm collective action, solutions which will put an end to the present disturbances. This is what the peoples whom we represent expect of us. To disappoint their hopes is to betray their mandate to us.
25.	At the beginning of our work we cannot fail to note the paradoxical position in which the world finds itself today. Although we have certainly made the most extraordinary scientific and technical advances from which the greatest happiness and well-being could be derived, humanity has never felt a greater threat of immediate destruction than it does todays It almost seems as though man's conquest of outer space can be accounted for by his desperate anxiety to flee from a house which is on the point of collapse.
26.	One of our main concerns should be immediately to face up to all the problems which constitute a threat to world peace. This is the preventive phase of our work, in which we must show a will to co-operate in order to reduce the present tension, to stop the armaments race, to end nuclear experiments for destructive purposes, to put an end to the cold war and to find means of agreement between the Powers primarily responsible for the fate of all.
27.	If we carry out this urgent task there will open up vast possibilities of fruitful collaboration for the constructive use of the immense potentials which science has placed within the reach of man. These include the use of atomic energy for creative human activities and effective co-operation between all the peoples of the world for the exchange of their material and spiritual riches, and so that they may render assistance to each other and forge closer political, technical, economic and social bonds.
28.	In this first phase, the United Nations emerged successful from a difficult test when, as the result of a unanimous vote at the third emergency special session of the General Assembly, a satisfactory formula was found for dealing with the serious situation in the Middle East. In the absence of a really permanent solution, however, equally serious conflicts are once again breeding anxiety throughout the world and darkening the future with further threats. Just as in the previous emergency the United Nations found a solution with the means at its disposal, so now we meat make every effort to ensure that it finds a satisfactory solution to the problems disturbing the peace and security of the world.
29.	Despite some criticism of its ineffectiveness, the United Nations continues to be the channel through which mankind must direct its efforts in order ultimately to achieve the lasting peace which it desires. The great majority understands this and the peoples of the world, conscious of the task entrusted to the United Nations for the maintenance of international harmony, place their greatest hopes in our Organization. One of the means which in our view would assist the United Nations in its task is a very considerable strengthening of the functions and authority of the Secretary-General who has fully demonstrated the effectiveness of his aid in particularly difficult situations.
30.	Venezuela is again ready to co-operate earnestly and with conviction as it did in the case of the Middle East conflict. We are fully cognizant of the limited nature of the effective action we can take on world problems; but we do believe in the force of our convictions, in our right to make our voice heard and in our duty to give the best of ourselves in defence of the principles to which we subscribed in the Charter, as those principles are our very own,
31.	Consequently, Venezuela will support any proposals which may guarantee peace with justice and will endorse any measure tending to promote not unilateral disarmament, which would lead to the subjugation of the world by any Power which might continue to maintain armed forces, but a general disarmament under international supervision. Venezuela will also agree to the suspension of nuclear tests, which may have irremediably serious and unforeseen consequences, provided that the suspension is brought about in such a way that it gives no advantage to any country or group of countries.
32.	Venezuela will apply scrupulously the principle of non-intervention, refraining from intervention in any form, because it is convinced that the strict maintenance of this principle is one of the main guarantees of international harmony. I refer to both armed and ideological intervention, whether in the Internal or in the external affairs of States.
33.	Armed intervention is the very negation of a principle which is basic to our manner of thinking and way of life — a principle which has been embodied in our Constitution for more than a century: the principle of the peaceful settlement of international disputes. My country cannot therefore support recourse to force either for the purpose of settling differences or for the purpose of Intervening directly in the internal or external affairs of any State.
34.	No less hateful and inadmissible to Venezuela is ideological Intervention which is closely linked with indirect aggression as it pursues the same end of subjugation, not by force of arms but with the more telling power of thought control. The Venezuelan people are independent by nature and by conviction, and would tolerate no foreign domination however subtle and intangible it might be.
35.	With regard to the creative task that devolves upon the United Nations in laying the bases for a better world, I can give assurance that the Venezuela of today will participate eagerly in any positive measures in which our co-operation is sought. One of the most important of such undertakings is the co-ordination of economic interests. My Government believes that the international community must press for implementation of measures designed to further such co-ordination, giving first priority to the needs of the underdeveloped countries.
36.	Economic and social development has become a matter of primary concern to all peoples. It should therefore be the unswerving aim of the United Nations to ensure that development in accordance with the basic postulates of human freedom and dignity. There should be no economic and social development which involves the sacrifice of those principles that are dear to all free men. Man’s fundamental rights should not simply be recognized in theory, but real bases should be laid for their effective enjoyment. There must be general agreement on these objectives to guide international action in this sphere.
37.	The efforts of the United Nations to promote the Industrialization of under-developed countries deserve the firmest support and have the unreserved backing of my country. Industrialization is the most suitable means for improving the standard of living of any people. The fears and reservations with which some economically powerful countries used to view the industrialization of under-developed countries have now fortunately been dissipated. This change in outlook is due to the increasing realization that industrialization increases the purchasing power of the people and that it widens the market for exports to the benefit of all. A proper trade policy which takes into consideration the pressing needs of our countries is also an indispensable requirement for the maintenance and expansion of our development plans.
38.	Although considerable progress has been made in analysing the problems of trade faced by the underdeveloped countries, we still have insufficient means at our disposal for rapid and effective solution of the various problems that may arise. Ways are still being sought to reduce excessive fluctuations in the price of raw materials. During the past year a great many countries, Including many in Latin America, have had to face serious economic difficulties as a result of the fall in price of basic products, which coincided, moreover, with a rise in price of imported goods. Such circumstances call for energetic remedial action.
39.	Another serious danger lies in the restrictive trade policies which highly developed countries may impose on the importation of our goods, A sudden drop in foreign currency receipts could produce serious disturbances in the economies of our countries and cause unemployment and poverty among the great mass of workers, disequilibrium in the balance of payments and a general decline in our industrial activity.
40.	Measures which are favourable to trade will always have beneficial effects on economic development. This presupposes wide-scale use of capital goods — equipment, machinery and technical supplies- which cannot be obtained by under-developed countries if they lack the necessary foreign exchange, the principal source of which is trade. It is also essential to foster the growth of foreign capital investment, both public and private. Domestic savings are not sufficient to give impetus to the full development of our national economies and in certain cases would be insufficient to maintain the present rate of growth owing to demographic and other social pressures.
41.	We therefore view with sympathy the efforts being made by the United Nations to face the problems of financing economic development both by public and private moans. In spite of its modest size and limited scope, we consider that the Special Fund, on whose final establishment the General Assembly will have to reach a decision during the present session, is a first step in the right direction. In this connexion we should mention an event of positive significance, namely, agreement reached at the Conference of the Foreign Ministers of the twenty-one American republics recently held in Washington regarding the urgent need to take initial steps towards the establishment of a banking institute especially designed for the promotion of our regional economy.
42.	Venezuela has succeeded in attracting a considerable volume of foreign capital which has contributed notably, and in an atmosphere. of co-operation and confidence, to our economic development. These foreign investments enjoy the same equitable treatment as is accorded to domestic investments. This has not been due and is not due to transitory political circumstances, but to the firm conviction of the Venezuelan people that such investments are a singularly important contribution to the proper exploitation of our natural resources. For their part, the investors have proved themselves worthy of the confidence placed, in them by the Venezuelan people by showing respect for our laws and institutions, by abstaining from interference in our domestic affairs and by showing a willingness to co-operate in the achievement of such plans as are likely to assist in raising the standard of living of our people. Countries which export private capital could further contribute to an Increase in investments through adopting measures to encourage investors; among these a place of primary importance should be given to acceptance of the fiscal policy principle - recommended on many occasions by the Economic and Social Council and by the General Assembly — that profits accruing from such investments should be taxed only in the producer country.
43.	In the social sphere, particularly in connexion with the international covenants on human rights, I must confess that Venezuela views with discouragement the marked contrast between the number of statements on the subject and the slow pace at which these covenants are coming into force. In fact, the tenth anniversary of the signing of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in Paris will fall on 10 December 1958. The most solemn and significant action which could be taken to commemorate that date would be to embody those principles in a formal undertaking. Indeed, the day when the United Nations succeeds in guaranteeing respect for the basic human rights by giving force of law to the covenants, it will have achieved one of its finest and most fruitful aims.
44.	Smother principle which is historically identified with the Venezuelan nation and, which will always receive our support is that of the self-determination of peoples, the practical application of which carries with it the elimination of all vestiges of submission or dependence. This principle will become effective when, it is finally recognized that the colonial system is as anachronistic and absurd in international relations as is slavery in relations between individuals.
45.	I have spoken frankly, as befits the delegation of a country which today addresses this world forum with its head held high, and I have stated the position of my Government on some of the problems which will occupy the attention of this Assembly. The position of my Government can be summed up as follows: maintenance of the rule of law in international relations and promotion of co-operation between peoples in all spheres of activity.
46.	My country’s attachment to the rule of law is not merely theoretical. It is something vital to our survival. We have neither nuclear weapons nor powerful armies nor inexhaustible economic resources. We have, however, for the protection of our sovereignty and national heritage a more noble and effective means of recourse than that which we may hope to derive from our limited forces: this is the practical application and observance of the principles of law. This we shall defend unhesitatingly whenever we see it endangered.
47.	In the sphere of international co-operation we are prepared, moreover, to promote any measures which tend to bring peoples together, to improve their knowledge of each other and to foster malarial, spiritual and technical exchanges. In these spheres, where the work of the United Nations has been and still is so fruitful, Venezuela will continue to participate with growing interest.
48.	I am convinced that this line of conduct is entirely in keeping with the principles underlying the Organization of American States. These include: the supremacy of law, the principle of non-intervention, the peaceful settlement of disputes, mutual respect between members, and co-operation of all for the benefit of each and for the good of the community to which all members belong.
49.	Venezuela therefore does not stand alone. In speaking to this Assembly, I am convinced that my words will echo with a familiar ring among a group of sister nations which share our concerns and harbour the same hopes as ourselves. Ours is a community which has succeeded in achieving within itself mankind's ancient ambition to live in peace and to prosper through work. It is for that reason that we are proud of the designation "Now World" given to our region. May God grant that in the face of the grave perils that threaten us that same spirit will animate all the Member countries of the United Nations so that they too may truly claim to be "United".


===== Session 14 - 1959 =====
99.	Mr. President, my delegation is gratified and proud that you have been elected to preside over this session of the General Assembly. With the distinction you have achieved in the diplomatic history of the Latin American peoples and the reputation you have earned as a true disciple of Bolivar in thought and feeling, your Presidency will bring this session, as it were, under the allspices of the great liberator Simon Bolivar, in other words under the sign of that freedom and unity of the world’s peoples which were the ideals of that universal genius.
100.	Whenever I come to this rostrum, from which we speak to the world, I cannot but recall that hour in human history when the United Nations came into being, as the embodiment of the loftiest aspirations of mankind and the fruit of a resounding victory of right over might. Armies were then returning from the field, their ranks depleted by thousands of casualties, and all the cities of the world were thronged with seething multitudes home from the trenches, the barbed-wire entanglements and the air-raid shelters and hoping for a new and happier life with peace, freedom and justice.
101.	All those hopes found their purest expression fourteen years ago in the creation of the United Nations.
102.	No great effort is required to observe that the noblest of those hopes was never fulfilled, and that in the years which have elapsed between the victory of yesterday and the frustration of today the world has continued to suffer from the very evils which had caused the aggression and war: clashes between the great Powers; a colonial system stifling the national aspirations of peoples yearning for freedom; poverty, illness and ignorance afflicting vast numbers of people in the under-developed countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America. The peoples' of the world are today so universally aware of these evils and the shadows, they cast over their lives that there is no need to emphasize the gloom and anxiety that today take in our hearts the place once held by hope and faith.
103.	Two facts, however, have remained unaltered: in the first place, the will of the peoples to resist the threat of war and, in the second place, the existence of this international Organization, which, despite its limitations, is a forum, and an invaluable one, for the defence of peace.
104.	The specific purposes of the United Nations are to maintain international peace and security; to develop friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples; and to promote social progress and higher standards of living in larger freedom.
105.	There has been considerable diplomatic activity recently outside the framework of the United Nations, which may also serve to strengthen the hope that conciliatory methods and ways of reducing tension will be found. We must not, however, regard such a state of affairs as permanent. Political realism is not necessarily opposed to the basic formulae that were thought appropriate to the solution of world problems when the Charter was signed in 1945, One of these formulae presupposed the participation of all States, large and small, in the search for the implementation of solutions of those problems which in the last analysis affect us all vitally,
106.	It is true that the experience of the last fourteen years has revealed structural defects in this world Organization, and if it is to endure and to thrive as an effective means of preserving peace its essential machinery must be honestly examined and overhauled. I cannot conceal the fact that my Government is particularly concerned at the paralysing effect which the abuse of the veto so frequently produces on the United Nations organ bearing the greatest weight of political responsibility, namely, the Security Council. This state of affairs must be remedied.
107.	A facetious journalist quoted, and the international Press services picked up, a shrewd remark attributed to our President that the United Nations does not function with the veto, and without the veto it would cease to exist.
108.	I do not know whether our President actually said those words or not, but if he did he was no doubt attempting thus pithily to convey the seriousness of this problem of the veto in the United Nations. We must face this grave problem and try to solve it by democratic means in keeping with the standards of the United Nations.
109.	In speaking for Venezuela from this rostrum X bring to you the voice of its people and its new democracy. For many years a domestic regime based on force mid terror came between us and the United Nations, but our national life has now changed. Twenty months ago the revolution in Venezuela swept away the last of our tyrannies, and it has not sought to replace the violence of despots with the violence of demagogues. Where formerly the tyrant unlawfully held sway there now exists a constitutional power created by the vote of a national majority, a power which respects the laws and is exercised through genuinely democratic and representative institutions.
110.	Because I speak on behalf of a people which has recovered its freedom of speech, the points I wish to make are not tied up with diplomatic commitments and are not a selfish and cynical statement of my country’s self-interest. My intention is not merely to please those who do me the honour of listening to me. I have come to express, humbly but frankly, the views and wishes of my people and Government in respect to certain problems of our time.
111.	Venezuela will endeavour to express its views on international questions before this Assembly in terms that will faithfully reflect our deep devotion to the cause of peace. We do not come to this rostrum to make aggressive or discriminatory speeches against any nation or group of nations. In international as in domestic politics we are, and aim to be, objective, and this attitude has brought us to the realization that we are part of the Western world and of its economic, social and political structure. But this realization does not cause us to believe that the desire for peace and the will to achieve it are the monopoly of the group of nations to which we belong, or that schemes for conquest and oppression rear their ugly heads only in the opposite camp. Far from it. We know that peace has good friends in all latitudes and that all human communities, from the mere fact that they are communities of human beings, regardless of the economic or political system under which they live, must share an unswerving determination to prevent war, to live in harmony, as good neighbours, with the rest of the human species, and to obtain for themselves and for others the guarantee of an international security which will permit them to live, work and enjoy the fruits of their labours.
112.	As a peace-loving people, we in Venezuela share the fervent hopes of all mankind at this historic hour when signs of understanding and good will seem to be replacing the previous attitudes of antagonism and mistrust adopted by the great Powers. We welcome the visit of Mr. Khrushchev, Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union, to tills great North American nation and the proposed return visit of President Eisenhower to the USSR, as so many steps along the road to peace, co-operation among nations and the sincere and effective application of the spirit of the United Nations in international affairs.
113.	We are not unaware that the road to peace and coexistence is beset with the most serious difficulties. As a people of very limited military strength we do not wish to take the easy line of throwing all responsibility upon those who must be the pioneers and prime movers in the defence and maintenance of peace. We do wish, however, to express our conviction that in the face of this difficult task, any policy which closes the door to understanding, discussion and a gradual easing of tension would be disastrous. We maintain that some kind of political agreement is a necessary prelude to disarmament, to the suspension of nuclear tests and to the prohibition and control of atomic and nuclear weapons.
114.	A few hopeful developments have begun to dispel the darkness that has enveloped the world in recent years. The deadlock on disarmament seems to have been broken at long last. Although the great Powers have. reached an agreement in principle without the direct participation of the United Nations, we welcome the initiative they have taken and consider it to be in keeping with the spirit of the Charter.
115.	We are glad to see that in their communique of 7 September 1959 [DC/144] the four Powers formally recognized that ultimate responsibility for disarmament rests with the United Nations and that the setting up of a ten-Power Disarmament Committee, on a basis of parity, in no way diminishes or encroaches upon the functions of the United Nations in the matter. Equally significant is their recognition of the cardinal principle that only effective international control can provide the necessary safeguards for the limitation and reduction of all armaments and armed forces.
116.	We also welcome as a good omen the apparently successful outcome of the negotiations between the United States, the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union on the cessation of nuclear tests. Each test has brought home to us the painful fact that we are living in dangerous times and has made us recall before the inferno it seemed to foreshadow. As the world’s most eminent scientists have warned us, each test has involved a grave danger of atmospheric contamination, a danger which has given rise to universal and justifiable alarm.
117.	Problems relating to disarmament are obviously part of the wider and more deep-seated problem of peaceful coexistence between two worlds living under different political, economic and social systems. The Eastern world seeks to maintain the status quo in Europe and to institute changes in Asia and Africa, whereas the Western countries favour changes in Europe but apparently wish to leave things are they are overseas. Given such a situation, such complex and diametrically opposed positions, it must be clear to everyone that a policy of intransigence is ultimately bound to lead to war. The indefinite preservation of the status quo may arrest the process of historical development and strike at the roots of the democratic principle of self-determination, yet any violent change in Europe or Asia will bring war, and war will mean the death of civilization and the end of the human race. That is why we believe that the policy of maintaining contact, of keeping the lines of communication open, cannot be abandoned. Peace can be achieved only through the exercise of great patience and an infinite capacity for tolerance and sacrifice.
118.	Peace is essential not simply as the alternative to war, as the means of delivering us from death or extermination. It also constitutes the indispensable foundation for every international policy aimed at the independence of peoples, at economic and social development and at the consolidation of the international legal order.
119.	Since the birth of the United Nations some fifteen years ago, peace has been absent from the international scene and, as a result, too little headway has been made in the struggle against colonialism, social evils and economic backwardness. Solely because peace has been replaced by the cold war, the United Nations has been impeded in its function of uniting all the peoples of the world and its character as a democratic organization based on the principle of equality for all has been impaired.
120.	Peace will enable us to launch an effective programme of economic assistance to the underdeveloped countries on a truly international scale. The end of the cold war would mean that the vast sums which have hitherto been invested in the production of armaments could be released for economic aid.
121.	We have not the slightest doubt that if the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and the other great Powers had been able to devote to economic development and to the eradication of disease and ignorance the huge sums they have so far been compelled to invest in the armaments race, the poverty-stricken masses of the world would be on the verge of deliverance from exploitation and want.
122.	At this session, Venezuela will support any practicable, workable proposals designed to facilitate the economic development of the under-developed countries. With the exception of political problems, which tend to be of a serious character, none of the problems confronting the United Nations is more important or far-reaching than that of economic development. If carried on intensively, it will bring the fruits of civilization and culture to the masses, and will eliminate the social evils which find fertile soil in misery and insecurity. It will give real meaning to many of the human rights enshrined in the Charter and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights signed in Paris eleven years ago, because these rights will be effectively enjoyed and observed.
123.	We hope too that, in the triumph of peace, economic aid will no longer be affected by the political considerations which have unfortunately so often vitiated it in the past. Economic aid has often been yet another weapon in the arsenal of the cold war instead of an instrument of world peace and justice. It has frequently been granted not out of a desire to help the weak or to promote economic development but purely for strategic purpose. For that reason alone, Latin America, a region no less impoverished than others, has always been the Cinderella of economic aid. Our continent has long suffered from poverty, but as it is remote from the cold war, it has not received the help it needs. Latin America is convinced that the end of the cold war will mean the end of the discrimination practised against it.
124.	We are equally convinced that the gradual reconciliation of conflicting views will affect another important aspect of international affairs and the work of the United Nations, namely, the colonial question. May I say that during the debate on this question Venezuela will take an unequivocal, firm and just stand in support of the colonial peoples aspiring to independence.
125.	We realize that such a stand may not always be in our best interests from a diplomatic standpoint. However, Venezuela, as a democratic country and a nation of which Simon Bolivar was both son and father, can take no other. Whenever matters of this kind are discussed, our position will be one of outspoken support for the national independence of peoples. We are convinced that the progress of peace will further the cause of the non-self-governing peoples. The liberation of the colonial peoples has clearly been, hampered by the prejudices that have clouded world public opinion as a result of the cold war. Both sides have tended to confuse nationalistic causes with political movements of the most varied complexion. The time has come to put an end to this confusion. The desire for nationhood is one of the deepest aspirations of the human spirit. The existence of an international legal order is not compatible with the survival of the colonial system. The world of the United Nations must be one in which no people is denied the full exercise of its sovereignty.
126.	I wish to make it quite clear in this connexion that Venezuela's anti-colonialist policy in no way weakens our firm and sincere friendship for those nations with which we may temporarily differ because of that policy.
127.	Problems relating to racial discrimination and human rights are of particular interest to the democratic Government of Venezuela. Ours is a country in which there is full social and racial democracy and which is free of discrimination and prejudice based on inequality. While Venezuela's political progress has been hampered by periods of tyranny and retrogression, the Venezuelan people have always been in the vanguard of the movement for the integration and unification of mankind. All of us, blacks and whites, indians and mestizos, are equal, and our legal and moral rights as human beings are fully recognized.
128.	This being the situation within our borders, our policy with respect to racial discrimination and human rights is crystal clear. We are opposed to discrimination and wholeheartedly support every provision of the Charter designed to safeguard human rights. Respect for human rights throughout the world can never be urged too strongly. Humanitarian considerations apart, there is an inescapable collective responsibility in the matter. The first exchanges of the Second World War did not take place on the battlefield but were internal clashes between right and might, the persecutors and the persecuted, the police agents of the totalitarian State and their victims.
129.	Today, violations of human rights are still being committed in the name of sovereignty, often witnessed with cold indifference by distant spectators. No area in the world seems to have been spared this internal struggle. The soiled of violent measures of repression still echoes in the United Nations, and in our own continent of America, not very far from the country in which this Assembly is meeting, force has been used for decades to deprive men of their fundamental rights.
130.	A little over a month ago I had the great honour of representing my country at the Fifth Meeting of Consultation of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the American States, held at Santiago, Chile. At that meeting, which was a landmark in the development of the international public law of the Americas, it was recognized that harmonious relations could exist among the American Republics only if human rights and fundamental freedoms and the exercise of representative democracy were a reality within each individual State. It was further admitted that the idea of sovereignty was in no way incompatible with collective action based on agreements freely concluded for the defence of the individual, political and social rights of Americans.
131.	The Charter of the United Nations, in fine and stirring words, reaffirms the faith of the peoples in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and women. Every Member State had pledged itself to take measures, jointly and severally and in cooperation with the United Nations, to promote universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion.
132.	It would be going too far to say that the United Nations has achieved nothing in this direction during the past fourteen years. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the very modest efforts of the Commission on Human Rights and its subsidiary organs provide concrete evidence of its concern. I feel bound to point out, however, that very little has been done in relation to the actual needs of the peoples and the urgent promptings of the conscience of mankind. Steps must be taken to streamline procedures, to revitalize organs whose activities are unduly restricted by out- of-date provisions, and to apply a creative stimulus to the whole work of the United Nations so that it can fulfil the hopes placed by mankind in its mission of emancipation.
133.	The Venezuelan delegation endorses the policy which found specific expression in the reorganization last year of the Commission on International Commodity Trade and in regional agreements regulating the prices of primary products, such as the Latin American Coffee Agreement signed at Washington in July 1959.
134.	While we are in a fortunate economic and monetary position because oil, our chief national product, is still in demand and prices are high, we realize that the continuous decline and frequent fluctuations in the prices of primary products, together with the continuous rise in the prices of the manufactured goods exported to us by the highly industrialized countries, are mainly responsible for the stagnation, poverty and social and political in security of the underdeveloped countries. Venezuela will firmly support any measures designed to maintain markets and prices for primary products at levels which will ensure the progress and stability of our continent and all the under-developed areas of the world.
135.	I should like to say that, within the framework of the present economic System of our continent, Venezuela will fully support the plan known as "Operation Pan-American" proposed by President Juscelino Kubitschek of Brazil because we consider that it has great possibilities and will certainly promote the political consolidation and economic development of Latin America.
136.	Before concluding this brief summary of Venezuela's position at the fourteenth session of the General Assembly, I should like to express a hope.
137.	Perhaps the most promising prospect held out by the relaxation of international tension is the possibility that our Organization may finally become what the Charter intended it to be: a union of all States and a forum for all peoples. While we recognize that it has come some way along this road, it obviously still has far to go. It cannot be denied that large and important sections of the human race are excluded from our midst and that this limitation, which has been forced upon the United Nations by the tensions of the cold war, hampers it in its task of promoting peace, freedom and justice.
138.	Venezuela hopes that, with the removal of international tensions, the United Nations will regain its original universal and democratic character. There must be room in our Organization for all peoples and that is why we feel that in due course a solution must be found, without prejudice of any kind and solely in the light of the essentially universal character of our Organization, to the Chinese quests n, which has been raised by the delegation of India. In response to the increasingly strong demands of the peoples for the application of democratic principles, the United Nations must undertake a balanced reorganization of its structure and present a completely democratic face to the world, having put to an end to the privileged position which is now enjoyed by some sections of its membership and which at present imposes a status of inferiority upon an important group of States participating in its work.
139.	I fully agree with the statement made on 16 September 1959 at a Latin American meeting by the chief of the Brazilian delegation, Mr. Augusto Federico Schmidt. I shall quote him verbatim: "Standing together, united, the Latin American States are a force; divided and scattered, with an intermediary between us, what will we be tomorrow? We are living at a time when the world is making impressive strides. We are witnessing the awakening to intensive activity of the People's Republic of China with its 600 million inhabitants. We see the birth and development of new nations. We behold a Europe which has not, only recovered but is now more prosperous than ever before, a Russia that has shown startling and unparalleled technological advances and a United States which, through its world-wide activities, controls trade in a very large part of the world."
140.	We the peoples of Latin America are entitled and resolved to make our voice heard — a voice which reflects our own interests and aspirations — in the settlement of international affairs. The important project known as "Operation Pan-American", initiated by the President of Brazil a year ago, reflected a strong current of opinion, which again found expression at the Santiago conference. Against the background of minor issues which seem to dominate our regional politics, one fact is emerging: Latin America is finding its voice, wishes to be heard and is entitled to be heard.
141.	On behalf of Venezuela, I wish to express the hope that this Assembly will constitute a new victory for peace. I have been the spokesman of a people whose determination to co-operate in the highest human endeavours has left a lasting imprint on American history. Today, having resolutely overcome temporary setbacks, it again stands before the world in its true image.
142.	Never before has mankind been faced with such sharp alternatives. The contemporary development of science and technology has opened up unlimited prospects of material progress. Astonishing scientific discoveries follow each other in seemingly endless succession. We are now no longer surprised by the periodic news of human ventures so daring that they alone could serve as the hallmark of any era.
143.	The challenge which history presents to modern man is that of a colossal conflict between the blind forces of matter and the creative, illuminating action of the spirit. It is the age-old drama of man, but now the world is the stage: only the triumph of intelligence, reason and common sense can prevent a hideous catastrophe, in which matter will destroy us all.

===== Session 15 - 1960 =====
Mr. President, may I add my most sincere congratulations to those of the many eminent persons who have spoken before me on your well-deserved election to the high office of President of this fifteenth regular session of the General Assembly. Your election is a proof of the high esteem in which we all hold you for your ability, your impartiality and your devotion to the cause of the United Nations.
119.	On behalf of my country and my Government, I should like to give a warm welcome to the representatives of the newly independent States admitted to the United Nations at this Assembly. This has been a matter of special rejoicing for us in Venezuela, since we deeply cherish the ideals of independence, freedom and sovereignty which have brought your peoples into the community of sovereign States, masters of their own destiny.
120.	At the opening of the fifteenth regular session of the General Assembly, we stand at a decisive moment in the history of mankind. A single false move could lead to chaos and the destruction of our civilization. We have lost the optimism with which the last Assembly began its work. Unfortunate circumstances and events during the year have replaced hope and confidence with anxiety and fear. Instead of drawing closer together, the two main Powers, in whose hands the future of mankind may lie, have moved alarmingly far from one another, and the so-called cold war is in one of its most dangerous periods. In Europe, Asia, Africa and even America, bitter conflicts are being constantly aggravated by ideological influences and struggles which all have their roots in the cold war.
121.	We are in a dangerous situation and, if disaster is to be avoided, all States, great and small, which would suffer the appalling consequences of a continuation of this state of affairs to an equal degree, must unite their efforts to reach an agreement, to remove the fear of a holocaust and to restore peace and tranquillity to the hearts of men.
122.	In the world in which we live, with the means of total destruction available to man, such agreement is no longer an ideal, but an essential, condition of survival. No one in his right mind can now imagine for a moment that war could solve any of the burning problems of our time. Negotiation is therefore the only possible way, and the body best fitted to create the necessary atmosphere and conditions for negotiation is the United Nations. Here the voice of all the world's peoples can be heard and all the weight of world public opinion can make itself felt.
123.	It is therefore in everyone's interest constantly to strengthen this Organization and to bring their problems to it for discussion and for the elaboration of solutions, which, being based on the principles of the Charter and worked out in this world gathering, will inevitably reflect the judgement of world public opinion and satisfy the common interests of all nations.
124.	In the fifteen years of the existence of the United Nations, its various organs have dealt with crucial problems by relying on the moral authority of their recommendations and, when necessary, by sending emergency forces. United Nations intervention has often stopped the spread of a conflict which might otherwise have led to a world conflagration.
125.	Apart from this political action, the economic and social action of the United Nations and its work for the cause of independence of peoples are other examples of the benefits which all mankind has derived from this Organization.
126.	When we, the peoples of America, remember the long and bloody wars before we achieved our Independence, and when we see how the peoples of other continents are now gradually reaching self-government under the protection of the United Nations, we understand more clearly than ever how vitally important is the existence of this world Organization in the march of peoples towards the highest possible standard of living.
127.	I should therefore like to express once again my country's agreement with, and support of, the United Nations cause, and our endorsement of the Secretary-General's leadership in the discharge of his duties,
128.	The matters to which I have just referred and the considerable increase in the number of Member States, bring us to the question of a possible revision of the Charter, affecting the composition of the main organs of the United Nations. My delegation believes that any revision should include an increase in the number of members of the Security Council and of the Economic and Social Council, so that the composition of these Councils may be more representative of the total membership of the United Nations.
129.	We should also be in favour of abolishing the veto in the Security Council, so that this Council may be more effective and the rights of Member States more fairly represented.
130.	As regards the Secretary-General, although we respect the opinion of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union, we think that that office should remain vested in one person. To replace the Secretary-General by a tripartite administrative body made up of one representative of countries in the Western bloc, one representative of countries in the socialist bloc and one representative of the countries considered neutral would, in our opinion, have the disadvantage that the division of the world into hostile blocs of nations would thereby be written into the very Charter of the United Nations. This would be against the spirit of the Charter, which was designed to bring the individual nations of the world together without any distinction regarding their political or social systems. If such a tripartite body were set up to replace the Secretary-General, the highest administrative office of the United Nations would lose all of Its flexibility and efficacy.
131.	The Secretary-General is only the agent of the General Assembly and the Security Council, which are the sole political bodies qualified to determine the course of action of the United Nations.
132.	This Assembly will have to discuss many questions, but there is no doubt that the most far-reaching, the most important and the most urgent is that of disarmament. For many years this problem has received the attention of all statesmen, but it is still very far from solution. Now, unfortunately, we are witnessing an uncontrolled arms race and the growing production and stockpiling of weapons which could destroy all life on our planet in a few seconds.
133.	We were deeply concerned at the failure of the negotiations of the Ten-Nation Disarmament Committee at Geneva and the consequent deadlock on the disarmament problem. The great Powers are caught in a vicious circle, calling one another's proposals "disarmament without control" or "control without disarmament", both of which would be unacceptable.
134.	It is therefore necessary that this Assembly's discussions should lead to the breaking of this vicious circle, so that the great Powers may resume the negotiations which are an essential condition of any solution of the problem.
135.	I shall not go into details of the proposals sponsored by the United States and other Western Powers and by the countries of the socialist bloc, but I should like to make clear the position of my Government and country on the disarmament problem.
136.	Firstly, we think that this problem cannot be solved without an agreement between the great Powers, and we therefore appeal to them, thereby voicing the anxiety and concern of the entire Venezuelan people, to reach such agreement.
137.	We also think that disarmament negotiations should be kept within the framework of the United Nations, in the sense that that Organization should always be kept informed, through the Disarmament Commission, of the course of the negotiations, and that it should also be able to make any recommendations or suggestions which it may think necessary or useful. In other words, we think that the ultimate responsibility for disarmament, and the power of final decision in the matter, should remain with the United Nations.
138.	Lastly, it is my Government's opinion that disarmament cannot be achieved without the necessary measures of international control. Otherwise the danger of war might become greater instead of smaller, for it would then be possible for any party to violate the terms of the agreement and so to upset the balance of forces.
139.	We believe that disarmament can only be achieved in stages and progressively, and by the concurrent application of disarmament measures and of the corresponding measures of international control. This, of course, is a pragmatic approach, since the ideal would obviously be total disarmament, under effective international control, carried out by a single step and in a very short time.
140.	One of the aspects of disarmament which is of deep concern not only to the Venezuelan people but also the other peoples of the world is the testing of nuclear weapons. Each of these tests is not only a further step in the arms race but also a real and immediate danger to mankind, for it increases radioactivity and therefore endangers the health and development of present and future generations.
141.	The conclusions [A/4119] of the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation, are perfectly clear on the subject. My country is therefore strongly against the resumption of such tests, quite apart from any other problem connected with disarmament. For the reasons I have given, this aspect of disarmament deserves special consideration and cannot be subordinated to other aspects of the general problem.
142.	Another question connected with the disarmament problem is that of the use of outer space. We must prevent the arms race from spreading to those areas. We therefore thought that the President of the United States made some very wise suggestions when he dealt with the matter in this Assembly [868th meeting]. In 1958, when the problem first came up for discussion by the United Nations, Venezuela put its view in these words: "We stand at the threshold of a new era from which we can obtain either great benefits or dire evil for humanity. It will all depend on how we enter this new field. If we are able to leave aside the mistrust and rivalries that have so far obtained in other fields, then the conquest of outer space will redound to the great benefit of all. But if we transplant into this new field all the seeds of hatred and mistrust which unfortunately have been prevalent in the field of international relations, then the conquest of space will be but another scourge for humanity."
143.	Nowhere is there such manifest and urgent need for united, dynamic and imaginative action, based on historic and social realities, as in the economic field. Here the wide gaps in international society are more glaring than anywhere else. We live in an age of contradictions where, paradoxically, abundance and misery stand side by side and extraordinary technical and scientific development coexists with the hunger of multitudes.
144.	Who could deny that there is a close relation between under-development and the political and social crises which affect large parts of the planet? To face economic problems resolutely is, in a way, to prevent the ills of society. This is why we believe that the world Organization has a high responsibility in this field.
145.	We are bound to recognize that, in the fifteen years of the life of the United Nations, apart from some praiseworthy efforts, little has been done in the economic field. The problems of instability, both of markets and of the prices of raw materials, have not yet been solved; and only a few hesitant steps have been taken towards financing development.
146.	We think that this situation cannot and must not continue. The Secretary-General himself says in his Annual Report on the Work of the Organization [A/4390] that fluctuations in the prices of primary commodities have continued to present a major problem, particularly to the under-developed countries. In spite of many intergovernmental studies and fairly exhaustive analyses, both by the United Nations and by other bodies, the problem still exists and seriously affects the economy of developing countries.
147.	We believe that more intensive practical efforts should be made to reach agreements on commodities, so as to bring order and stability into international trade, to guarantee to consumers a normal flow, at reasonable prices, of the raw materials needed for industry, and at the same time to assure the producing countries of a regular revenue, without sudden and unexpected fluctuations.
148.	Nor should we abandon the basic principle that there must be a fair and balanced relation between the prices of commodities and those of manufactured products. We understand that it is theoretically and practically difficult to determine such a relationship, but there can be no doubt that the effort must be made, since the almost constant deterioration in the terms of trade which afflicts the under-developed countries every year is seriously damaging their chances of progress.
149.	A policy of stable and reasonable prices and a market free from abrupt fluctuations are certainly necessary for all commodities. And when it comes to commodities which constitute non-renewable resources, such a policy is absolutely essential.
150.	Non-renewable resources, by their very nature, are depleted at the rate at which their exploitation is intensified. If the economies of the countries which possess them are not to become seriously unbalanced, it is urgently necessary that equivalent resources be found to make up for the gradual diminution in a country's wealth brought about by such intensive exploitation.
151.	It is therefore necessary that the prices obtained should be related to the intrinsic value of the commodity exploited, and that the exploitation should be rational and consistent with the real needs of the international market. We believe such a policy should be laid down in appropriate agreements.
152.	For our part, as an iron producing and oil producing country, we are ready to take part in such agreements. As far as oil is concerned, we are happy to point out here that the first steps have already been taken, by the main oil-exporting countries of the Middle East and Venezuela, to ensure that trade in this commodity is carried out in conditions which safeguard the reasonable interests of producing countries, consumer countries and investors. To this end, an Agreement was signed at Baghdad on 14 September 1960, between representatives of Saudi Arabia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait and Venezuela. The text of this agreement recognizes that any fluctuations in oil prices must affect the carrying out of the development programmes of producing States as well as the economies of consuming nations; it was therefore decided, among other things, that member states of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), set up under the agreement, should study and work out a system to ensure stable oil prices, taking into due account the interests of both the producing and the consuming nations. One of the means used will be the rational regulation of production, which will be combined with the essential policy of conserving this invaluable natural resource in order to prevent an unnecessary and anarchical price war. The producing countries are also firmly resolved to provide an efficient, economic and regular supply of this source of energy to the consuming nations.
153.	We think that the application of the agreement will lead to three advantages: it will ensure that the producing countries receive a stable revenue, without violent fluctuations; a non-renewable resource will be exploited rationally, to prevent the depletion of a source of energy which is part of the heritage of mankind; and lastly, the consuming nations will have a regular and economic supply, at stable prices, of a commodity which is essential for their industry.
154.	We wish to place it explicitly on record that any country with substantial oil exports can become a member of the new organization, provided that it fulfils the conditions laid down in the Baghdad Agreement.
155.	The grave tensions of international political life are generally held responsible for the lack of wider co-operation between the great Powers in developing the less advanced areas of the globe. It is reasonable to ask ourselves, however, whether many of these tensions would not vanish if a bold plan of economic and social development were carried out under the auspices of this world Organization.
156.	It has been calculated that the great Powers spend $100,000 million a year on armaments. Is it not conceivable that, if part of these vast resources were invested in the creation of better economic and social conditions throughout the world, there might be considerably less need for such armaments?
157.	We think that international economic assistance should be given mainly through the United Nations and the regional agencies established in. accordance with the Charter. In this connexion, we are in favour of the proposals submitted to the General Assembly to the effect that the economic, social and educational co-operation needed for the proper development of the African continent should be channelled through this world Organization.
158.	The economic development of under-developed areas calls for a co-ordinated effort to make full use of technical knowledge and resources. Our Organization is well endowed with technical knowledge. The studies and analyses made by the competent organs of the United Nations deserve our warmest support. In particular, I should like to mention the valuable co-operation of the Economic Commission for Latin America.
159.	The Technical Assistance programmes are also very important to development, and the same may be said of the work of the United Nations Special Fund. I am happy to announce that my country is ready to increase its contribution to this Fund.
160.	However, the work which these organs are doing is not enough. The United Nations must have available wider resources if it is to contribute effectively to the progress of under-developed areas. This is why we still support the idea of setting up a United Nations capital development fund.
161.	In the Latin American region, certain particularly significant events have taken place during the past two years in the economic and social fields as a result of Operation Pan America, which was first proposed by the President of Brazil. The most recent such development took place in Bogotá. at the beginning of September. New measures were adopted on that occasion to strengthen the co-operation of the American Republics in the matter of social improvement and economic development, recognizing that the preservation and strengthening of free and democratic institutions in the American Republics requires the acceleration of social and economic progress. Under Operation Pan America, and through a concerted effort, the American countries will undertake measures for the improvement of housing and community facilities, educational systems and training facilities, programmes designed to assist the small farmer, public health etc. At this meeting it was also decided that a Fund for Social Development should be set up, to be administered mainly through the existing mechanism of the Inter-American Development Bank. The purpose of this Fund will be to support the efforts of the Latin American countries to employ efficiently their own resources with a view to achieving greater social progress and more balanced economic growth.
162.	In the promotion of economic development, foreign capital is often essential. The nature of the contribution which this capital can make will vary according to the particular conditions of each country. In some there will be a clear need for public capital, while others can help their economies by absorbing capital from private sources; and most countries may well find it best to have capital from both those sources.
163.	It is the firm policy of the Venezuelan Government to accept the co-operation of foreign investors, since the domestic capital alone is not enough to ensure the full use of all the sources of our country's wealth for the benefit of our people. Under the existing policy, the Government endeavours to direct foreign private investment towards those fields which have not yet been developed by our nationals, either because of the great capital needed or because of particular technical circumstances. We think it especially desirable to have foreign capital and national capital invested in common ventures.
164.	We think a healthy flow of foreign investment can prove beneficial to many under-developed countries. We believe that such capital investment should have as its aim not only to earn reasonable returns, but also to contribute to the development of the existing potential of the under-developed countries; the legitimate interests of the investors can thus be reconciled with those of the nation which opens its doors to their investments.
165.	Economic development is not an end in itself. It is only an instrument for the attainment of human well-being, for helping man to achieve everything of which he is capable. We therefore reject any idea which suggests dehumanizing development or depriving man of his essential qualities, ideals or rights for the sake of a purely material increase in goods and services. One of the fundamental values which my country is not ready to sacrifice is freedom.
166.	Ever since the middle of the nineteenth century, as a result of historical circumstances well known to this Assembly, the idea has spread over a large part of the world that freedom and economic wellbeing for all cannot be smoothly combined. We, however, do not think there is any such incompatibility between economic development and freedom.
167.	A vast four-year plan is now being carried out in Venezuela, in order progressively to develop the main sources of production and, in particular, to industrialize the country. To carry out this plan, we rely not only on the encouragement given by our own Government, but also on the wide co-operation of private enterprise.
168.	My Government has also paid particular attention to plans for agrarian reform. On 5 March 1960, the Venezuelan Agrarian Reform Act came into force. It is designed to transform the agrarian structure of the country and to give the rural population a part in its economic, social and political development, by replacing the latifundia system with a fair system of land ownership, tenure and use. This Act was inspired by a spirit of justice and fairness, and it takes into account the interests of the whole nation.
169.	The vast transformation of Venezuelan rural life which that Act implies will be accomplished without violating the legitimate rights of third parties. Nor have we forgotten that agrarian reform means much more than merely a redistribution of land; it also means credit and economic assistance to farmers, rural schools, rural electrification, rural road systems, promotion of agricultural co-operatives and the modernization of agriculture. In the next four years, Venezuela intends to invest 2.5 million million bolivares, that is, about $800 million in this vast agrarian reform. We believe that this relatively substantial investment is fully justified from the social and economic point of view. Large masses of Venezuelan peasants will for the first time enjoy the advantages of civilized living and the introduction of mechanization and a rationalization of the land tenure system will greatly stimulate agricultural production.
170.	Agrarian reform in Venezuela, founded on the principle that the land should be placed at the service of society and worked out by a unified and balanced regime, enjoys the support of all sectors of the country and may be regarded as one of the most genuine manifestations of the spirit of unity and social justice which reigns in Venezuela today.
171.	The next few years will be the years of the orderly development of Venezuela's economic resources. That development, together with the extensive programmes being carried out in other fields — in particular in education, health and housing — and the political harmony prevailing in the country, will help to strengthen the position of Venezuela in the community of nations and to demonstrate clearly, as other States in the same geographical region and throughout the world have done, that progress and freedom, far from conflicting, can give each other strength.
172.	In our philosophy of life, we regard individual freedom as the foundation of political democracy and respect for fundamental human rights as the necessary condition of society both nationally and internationally.
173.	Many of the questions before this Assembly have to do with the colonial problem. We should congratulate ourselves on the fact that, since the establishment of the United Nations, there has been much progress in that respect and every day we have witnessed the emergence of new independent States. The work of the United Nations in protecting peoples which have not yet attained their Independence and in applying the provisions of the Charter designed to promote the progressive development of Non-Self-Governing and Trust Territories towards full self-government has effectively contributed to the gradual eradication of the colonial system.
174.	Unfortunately, there are still cases in which the struggle for independence is a cruel one, and I should like to state here that the people of Venezuela unequivocally support those peoples who are being forced to fight for that sacred cause.
175.	In the young nations of America like ours, the principle of self-determination of peoples is one of the most deeply rooted. We cherish it as a precious bequest of our liberators and, in proclaiming it, the people of Venezuela pay tribute to the illustrious name of Simon Bolívar.
176.	It is our fervent desire that problems like that of Algeria will soon be settled by peaceful negotiations; and we still hope that can happen, for we cannot forget the generosity of France and its dominant role in history as the champion of freedom and protector of the oppressed.
177.	The problem of the Congo is another of the burning questions on the current political scene. In that connexion, my delegation wishes to confirm the principle by which it was guided when it supported the resolution recently adopted by the General Assembly at its fourth emergency special session [1474 (ES-IV)]. We believe that for a prompt solution of the Congo conflict it is essential that all States, without exception, should refrain from any direct or indirect intervention in that conflict and, consequently, without prejudice to the sovereign rights of the Republic of the Congo, should send no arms or other war material, military personnel or other military aid, directly or indirectly, while the United Nations is temporarily providing military assistance to the country, except at the request of the United Nations made through the Secretary-General. At the same time, the United Nations should continue to help the Republic of the Congo to organize its public administration and its essential services, as well as its economy and social institutions. We feel that only in that way can the unity, territorial integrity and political independence of the Congo be maintained and world peace preserved.
178.	This year, as it did last year, Venezuela has, together with many other States, co-sponsored the inclusion in this Assembly's agenda of the question of race conflict resulting from the policies of "apartheid” of the Government of the Union of South Africa. This is a situation which, instead of improving, has unfortunately deteriorated to a great extent as a result of the events occurring during the past year. The United Nations must take vigorous steps to prevent the continuance of a situation which is flagrant violation not only of the principles of the United Nations Charter, but of the very concept of equality among men created by God in his own image. Moreover, in the second half of the twentieth century, laws which discriminate among men solely on the grounds of the colour of their skin are an absolute anachronism.
179.	The concept of equality of all men, without distinction as to race, language, sex or religion is also one of the most deep-rooted among our people, and that is why we are actively co-operating in the United Nations, to secure the universal application of this principle which is so closely allied to that of human dignity.
180.	I should not like to conclude without a reference to the importance of regional organizations and, in particular, so far as the American continent is concerned, of the Organization of American States, in implementing the principles of the United Nations Charter.
181.	The action of that regional body this year has been extremely significant, and the sixth and seventh meetings of Foreign Ministers of the American States held in San José, Costa Rica, have reaffirmed the basic principles of our American system, so ably defined by the Foreign Minister of Brazil in his speech before this Assembly [868th meeting in these words: "... The regime accepted by the American peoples as compatible with their traditions and collective aspirations is that régime characterized by the free expression of thought, by free elections, by the separation of powers, by the limitations upon the terms of elective office, and by respect for civil liberties and human rights."
182.	Such is the regime in power today in Venezuela, and in order to defend it against the attacks of another régime which constitutes an anachronism in the community of free nations of America and is antagonistic to the principles governing it, Venezuela was forced to appeal to the Organization of American States, where justice was rendered it and sanctions were taken against the guilty party. If democracy is to be saved in America, the decision of Costa Rica must be faithfully carried out. Dark forces and powerful economic and financial interests are none the less continuing to work behind the scenes, to frustrate the effective implementation of that decision.
183.	Venezuela therefore wishes to denounce this threat in this world forum; it menaces not only the stability of democracy in my country, but the confidence of all the peoples of America in the effectiveness of the Organization of American States and in the sincerity of the Member States which have publicly subscribed to its principles
184.	In concluding this statement, I should like to express the most sincere hopes of my Government and of the Venezuelan people that out of the work of this fifteenth regular session of the General Assembly, whose prestige has been enhanced by the presence of such eminent statesmen, there will come the promise of a better world in which fear of a war of annihilation will give way to genuinely sincere coexistence between nations and to peace with justice for all peoples on earth.


===== Session 16 - 1961 =====
﻿In unanimously electing Mr. Slim to preside over its sixteenth session the General Assembly has made an excellent choice, for in him are united all the qualities needed to guide the thinking and the action for which the peoples look to the United Nations at this turning-point in history.
2.	The President's intelligence and tolerance, his moderation and impartiality, will, we are sure, do much to bring about at this session the understanding needed to restore to mankind the faith, optimism and joy that are today at a low ebb owing to the ominous threat of war.
3.	May I congratulate the President on this well- deserved mark of confidence which the General Assembly has conferred upon him.
4.	This sixteenth regular session of the United Nations General Assembly is opening under the violent shock caused by the tragic loss of Dag Hammarskjold.
5.	The Secretary-General's incredible death by accident has sown dismay in the hearts of the international community. Representatives, Secretariat members, Government leaders, newspapermen, the general public and even his opponents appreciate this irreparable loss to the ranks of the best of humankind, those who hold tolerance, reflection and serenity above violence, the rule of law and reason above force;) those who fight for peace and want all men to be happy. For although his opponents might perhaps have been able to tax him with mistakes, no one could deny Dag Hammarskjold's worth in dedicating himself body and soul to the achievement of those ideals as he saw them, to the point where his own death constitutes in some sort the crowning martyrdom to that devotion.
6.	As a result of the Secretary-General's demise, we are now faced with the need of appointing a successor to him. Article 97 of the United Nations Charter states: "The Secretary-General shall be appointed by the General Assembly upon the recommendation of the Security Council", My Government takes the view that this appointment should be made, if not immediately, with the least possible delay, as legally should be the
case, but not for that reason alone; politically speaking, it is not in the interest of the vast majority of the peoples represented here to delay too long in filling the vacant post. Needless to say, Venezuela is thinking in terms of a single Secretary-General.
7.	Apart from the fact that the Charter so provides, there are practical reasons for maintaining the unitary character of the Secretariat. We believe that a change in its structure would not benefit the Organization in any way; that, on the contrary, its action might thereby be paralysed and the performance of its normal functions impeded. The argument that the international character of the Secretariat would be best safeguarded by a change to allow of representation of the main political divisions of the world is not, in our opinion, valid. Bather than to ensure the predominance of truly international interests and purposes, the result would be to subject that organ to daily disputes. In this respect, we agree with Mr. Hammarskjold's ideas, as expressed in the last document put out by him (Introduction to the Annual Report of the Secretary- General on the Work of the Organization):
"The exclusively international character of the Secretariat is not tied to its composition, but to the spirit in which it works and to its insulation from outside influences..[A/4800/Add.lt page 6].
8.	All over the world men are watching, stunned, the latest worsening of the international situation, a situation which never before in history has been fraught with such peril for mankind. We have acclimatized ourselves to the cold war and learnt to breathe in its oppressive air, in the confident hope that Governments and their international organizations would find a road to understanding that would ensure the peaceful coexistence of nations.
9.	But all the professions of sincerity, all the expressions of good will and all the pledges of greater effort to seek the way to peace are being frustrated, one after the other, by what can only be regarded as frenzied preparations for war.
10.	Mankind is looking on in stunned dismay while, instead of progress, being made in the talks for banning nuclear weapons and for ending atom bomb tests for all time, the disarmament negotiations reach a deadlock and one of the great Powers responsible for the maintenance of peace without warning suddenly decides — and whatever the reasons adduced this is obviously iniquitous — to renew the testing of nuclear weapons of the most destructive kind.
11.	Not only has this action served to increase the danger of a world holocaust whereby civilization would be wiped out but, in the immediate present, it is of itself helping to weaken the chances of survival of the human race by daily increasing the contamination of the earth's atmosphere with harmful radiation which, according to scientists, is injurious to man and to all living creatures on earth.

12.	Hence, in speaking before this Assembly on behalf of the people and Government of Venezuela, my first duty is to record our profound consternation at the renewal of the nuclear tests. I am making this protest on behalf of a country that cannot use the language of threats but whose truly democratic domestic policy and peaceful tradition in international relations is the guarantee of its word.
13.	Freedom, respect for human dignity and social justice are no longer mere provisions in the Constitution and the laws of the Venezuelan Republic: today, they have become a fecund reality, part of day-to-day existence, lacking which the nation's life would be unthinkable.
14.	The principles of representative democracy and the rights of the individual, both as person and as citizen, have been enshrined for us in our Constitution and incorporated into cur daily life,
15.	Venezuela, in putting forward at the international level its ideas for advancing the common weal of mankind, in demanding observance of principles and respect for rules, in asking other States to comply with international law and the obligations they have freely assumed, is asking nothing more than it is itself doing or is ready to do.
16.	It is not therefore with the arrogance stemming from the possession of massive armaments — which, indeed, it does not possess — but with the moral strength conferred on a people by steadfast fulfilment, out of respect for its own sovereignty and its proven peaceful intentions, of its international obligations that Venezuela is come to this Assembly to ask for better faith and stricter and more honest adherence to the rules of international law on the part of the Governments represented here, for that is the most direct way of safeguarding peace and of working in concert for the well-being and advancement of mankind.
17.	Governments that deny the most elementary rights to their citizens, countries that violate by force the rules governing coexistence in the international community, come here with inflammatory slogans with the intent of covering up the intolerance in their internal regimes and of confusing world public opinion. The intent is likewise, by resorting to subterfuge based on distorted interpretations of the Charter of the United Nations and of the constitutions of the regional bodies, to place obstacles in the way of the peoples' advancement and their right to make the economic and social changes essential for the achievement of maximum levels of well-being.
18.	Too often the fact is expressly ignored that the existence of effective rules of international law alone is capable of bringing about the general and genuine undertaking on which a lasting peace may be based. The peoples of the world will gradually lose faith in the efficacy of international law and of the constitutions of world universal and regional organizations if the very Governments committed to ensure their observance hold them in contempt.
19.	There are signs that the United Nations, having been established under the best auspices and with the lofty purpose of safeguarding the security of all peoples within a framework of harmonious coexistence, is in danger of being swept away, carrying with it the last hopes of mankind.
20.	As early as April 1948, the present President of Venezuela, Mr. Romulo Betancourt, in his then capacity of head of Venezuela's delegation to the Ninth Inter-American Conference, sketched the ideas that have guided Venezuela's foreign policy, in delivering the closing speech of the Conference. At that time, he said that the effectiveness of multilateral agreements depends on the degree of true democracy in the signatory States and that "the fact that a distinction continued to be made between binding and non-binding obligations would detract from the moral authority of the system of relations that we have put together as well as from the ability to inspire confidence in the peoples of the world".
21.	Thus, I wish above all else earnestly to appeal to this Assembly, to the great and the small Powers alike, to see to it that our efforts to find the answer to grave international problems are made in the spirit of harmony that inspired those systems of law — appeal for return to rule of law, to respect for principle and regulation, to fulfilment of obligations and of the pledged word, with the interest of mankind and its higher destinies in mind.
22.	The principle of non-intervention in the affairs of other Governments has been zealously and consistently applied by Venezuela. In faithful and unflinching adherence to that principle, no armed expedition to overthrow the regime of another country has been or is being organized in my country. This stand is well known to the many groups of political exiles who have taken refuge under our flag and sought the hospitality of our land. This is not incompatible, but rather in keeping with our constant efforts, by word and deed, within our regional framework, to assure through concerted and collective action, compliance with the basic principle of the Charter of the Organization of American States, the general interpretation of which is that only Governments freely elected by their people and guaranteeing individual liberties and respect for human rights may be members of the OAS.
23.	In conformity with this principle of non-intervention, Venezuela condemns the attempts of certain Governments, acting in collusion with disaffected political groups which serve as their fifth column for propaganda and for stirring up violence, to upset law and order and seek to change by force the political structure of other countries. It is our firm belief that, if international agreements are observed in good faith, changes in the political structure of any society should, in conformity with the provisions of the United Nations Charter, be decided upon by the people, in exercise of their right to self-determination.
24.	Venezuela has firmly upheld this principle, which should serve to ensure the free expression by vote of the sovereign will of the peoples and not become a pretext for the seizure of power, through violence or usurpation, by dictatorships or regimes of force which withhold civil liberties. In this connexion, it is always in doubt that a regime that denies individual liberties and civil rights to its citizens, clamps down on freedom of the Press and information and on the right of minorities freely to form and operate as political parties, and obstructs the effective exercise of representative democracy, can be regarded as the legitimate outcome of the principle of self-determination of peoples.
25.	The Government of Venezuela has been constantly active and on the alert to ensure that human rights, as formulated in the Charter of the world and regional systems of nations to which Venezuela belongs, are safeguarded and it is a cause of profound 
concern to us that there are still countries today where those inherent rights of the individual are cruelly and shamefully vitiated and violated.
26.	I would therefore ask that the Assembly should, by resolution, instruct the Commission on Human Rights to submit an open report annually on any violations of the guarantees inherent to human life and dignity on the part of States Members of the United Nations. The conscience of the civilized world cannot rest in peace so long as this Assembly has not taken proper steps to lay down sanctions against Governments which until now have been offending against human rights with impunity — those human rights respect for which is generally regarded, within the international system under which we are living, as essential for the maintenance of peace.
27.	I now want to focus my. remarks on the subject among those before the Assembly that is of most vital and general interest. My purpose is to reiterate the fervent appeal of my Government and people to the great Powers asking them to make once again a sincere, a supreme effort to reach agreement on the banning of nuclear weapons and on world disarmament.
28.	The President of Venezuela, as "Head of State of a small Latin-American country", >desired at his first meeting with the diplomatic corps at Caracas, to put on record that Venezuela stands for disarmament. On that occasion, President Betancourt said: "No people on any continent can be free from the fear that unresolved problems may lead to the holocaust of a third world war, which in this atomic era will be a war between continents rather than peoples and whose consequences for mankind no one can foresee."
29.	At every session of this Assembly, the Venezuelan delegation has pressed this petition in defence of the survival of mankind, and will go on pressing it, with the utmost strength and persistence. My country is ready to unite its efforts with those of other peace- loving countries for the purpose of seeking a positive settlement of the problem of general disarmament, under effective international control.
30.	Needless to say, our appeal implies that the atomic Powers should at the earliest date come to terms for the conclusion of an agreement on the immediate cessation of nuclear testing for war purposes. Mankind has the right to demand that it should at least be guaranteed against contamination of the air it breathes.
31.	Nowadays, no one in his right mind can look on war as a means of settling a serious current problem. Negotiation is the only answer and it is the United Nations itself, where the voice of the peoples can be heard and the weight of world public opinion can make itself felt, that is the body best suited to establish the requisite climate and bases for negotiation,
32.	There is another matter of grave concern to all States Members of the United Nations, because of the possible danger it presents to world peace, and that is the Berlin question, which is one part only of the more general problem of the reunification of Germany. My delegation is of the opinion that this matter should be settled by negotiation, bearing in mind, however, that in the final analysis the right to determine its fate lies with the German people itself, in accordance with the principle of self-determination of peoples expressly written into the Charter of the United Nations.
33.	Before concluding, I should like once again to reaffirm my country's steadfast and unequivocal position on the colonial problem and the question of racial segregation, Venezuela, whose policy is rooted in its own attainment of independence, will continue in this world Organization to defend the right of the peoples still living under colonial or semi-colonial rule to full political and economic self-government. Likewise, we once more go on record as opposing all forms of racial discrimination.
34.	In conclusion, I wish this Assembly the fullest measure of success, for the sake of the peoples represented here and for the sake of all mankind.


===== Session 17 - 1962 =====
Mr. President, it is a pleasure for me to congratulate you on your election as the presiding officer of this Assembly. We are convinced by your record of outstanding service in the political and judicial offices you have held that you will carry out the duties of the high office of President of the General Assembly with your customary intelligence and discretion. We cherish the hope that under your expert guidance the present session will prove to be a great success.
50.	It is also a pleasure for me to extend the warmest of welcomes to the representatives of the four new independent States recently admitted to the United Nations: Rwanda, Burundi, Jamaica, and Trinidad and Tobago. The last two are countries of the American continent which are close to Venezuela both geographically and historically. Simón Bolivar lived in Jamaica, and it was there that he wrote one of his most extraordinary documents, "Letter from Jamaica". It was Trinidad which gave a brotherly welcome to the first political exiles from my country, the heralds of our independence. These and other things which have united us in the past and unite us in the present explain the special sympathy with which Venezuela has welcomed the independence of these two new States.
51.	In attending this General Assembly of the United Nations we are naturally concerned over the difficult problems of our times. We cannot ignore the fact that the world is passing through one of its most serious crises which we must try to solve in ways dictated by reason, law and historical experience. It is fortunate indeed that we can meet here, with our different points of view to be sure, with more or less conflicting interests, but, there can be no doubt, with the purpose of saving the world from one of those relapses which have so far proved ineffective as a solution to its most serious problems.
52.	No people wants war, nor does any statesman who loyally interprets the feelings of his people. But the mind of peoples has been, and is being, poisoned by the preaching and practice of doctrines which seek to build a new world on the ruins of liberty, as if man were eager to return to primitive times. There cannot be the slightest doubt that throughout history man has been struggling towards liberty. Nations which have no powerful army and which use no language other than that of principle firmly maintain that the problems plaguing this world in crisis can be solved by peaceful means. Long before Europe, we in America proscribed wars of aggression and declared recourse to war a real crime. In keeping with the ideal of peace — which is the very basis of our world Organization — the Charter of the United Nations tells us "to practice tolerance" and "to live together in peace". That is an ideal which cannot be achieved overnight. The history of mankind has been different, but its long and dramatic past has given rise to the conviction that war is not a solution, that it is always better to negotiate than to fight. It is in order to negotiate that we who constitute the United Nations have come together here. If only the great Powers, too, might be guided in their deliberations here by that spirit of understanding and faith in principles. If only those great Powers might forget that they possessed the most destructive weapons hitherto know, and might, like the small Powers, the unarmed Powers, rely on a surer and more human arsenal in their international disputes: on international law and the procedures laid down in our Charter, which are the only civilized means of solving any kind of problem between the States Members of our Organization.
53.	Mankind has had a spectacular history. In Europe, the cradle of our Western civilization, the two greatest wars of all times broke out within a period of barely twenty years. Even now it could not be said that we are living in peace. Some call our present situation cold war; others, bellicose peace. Both expressions aptly show the ferment of our times.
54.	In primitive times warfare was more or less man's natural state. The law of the strongest prevailed. He who had nothing with which to defend himself perished. To redress the balance, weapons appeared, weapons of stone, then of metal. Much later came firearms. Firearms had a terrifying impact, and no doubt people believed that weapons of such destruction would not be used for fighting and that peace would reign among men. The romantic socialists of the middle nineteenth century welcomed the appearance of the railway as a vehicle of friendship. The peoples, they said, would become better acquainted, would fraternize, by using such facilities for exchanges of visits. Things did not turnout in that way. We have seen how railways have been used to transport troops and to invade neighbouring countries as quickly as possible. And in the First and Second World Wars the most powerful weapons, huge guns, submarines, battleships, aircraft, all were put to use as soon as they appeared. The most powerful conventional weapons went into action. Nevertheless, man still retained control over the destructive means he used. Today, with the appearance of nuclear weapons and radiation, he has lost that control, and this change, this loss of control over his means of destruction, is what makes us less pessimistic as regards the possibility of a new war.
55.	While weapons have changed — there has been quite an evolution between the invention of gunpowder and the atomic bomb — the fact unfortunately remains that man has changed very little and the saying Homo homini lupus still seems to be all too true. The root of everything that has happened and will happen in the world is buried in the heart of man, which is therefore the measure of all things. Our efforts must be directed at knowing each other better, at understanding each other, at negotiating always, at using every possible means to reach understanding and when all of them seem exhausted, to begin anew, bravely and resolutely, until peace is enthroned in the hearts of men and of peoples.
56.	This desire for understanding, to which I have just referred, seems to be absent, and in every corner of the world we find the deepest anxiety, fully justified because of the impression that we are witnessing the final deterioration of an international situation which has never been so heavily laden with dangers for mankind. It is painful to have to realize that the fine words and the promises of peace are losing their noble meaning and force and arc giving ground before what might better be regarded as preparations for war. For example, there is no inkling of success in the disarmament talks and no apparent hope for the prohibition of atomic weapons and the discontinuance of nuclear tests as part of the disarmament process. In that regard, as the representative of a Government that wants peace, I should like to record our profound disappointment over the renewal of atomic weapons tests and our eagerness to see a final agreement on disarmament. We believe that a strong effort must be made for the immediate attainment of, at least, the cessation of nuclear tests under international supervision.
57.	So far as our continent is concerned, we, the people of America, have built by a process that has taken sixty years a political structure founded on democratic solidarity. The attainment of that solidarity and of the lofty aims towards which it is directed calls for the organization of Member States on the basis of the effective exercise of representative democracy. This principle is laid down in article V of the Charter of the Organization of American States and is unquestionably of a binding character. That this principle has been successfully enshrined as the standard of political life is explained by the fact that the feeling most deeply rooted in our American peoples is a sense of liberty.
58.	We believe that if there is world peace, the democratic form of government will be established in our America. We Venezuelans are convinced that a system of public freedoms will enable us to carry out the most progressive economic and social reforms. In other words, we can practice a dynamic democracy aimed at achieving social justice. In this regard it is worth noting, by way of example, what has so far been done in Venezuela in the matter of agrarian reform. Up to now 56,284 families have been settled and 1,620,000 hectares have been distributed to the peasants.
59.	It should be emphasized that in order to achieve its objectives of social justice and economic betterment, the agrarian reform is not limited simply to giving land to the man who works it. The State is also providing him with education for his children, sanitary conditions, loans and technical assistance.
60.	With particular reference to the work being done by our world Organization, we agree with the Secretary-General that a dynamic, rather than a static approach, is required. In this time of profound and rapid changes in every sphere of international life, no other interpretation concerning what are the proper functions of the United Nations is conceivable. It should be the mission of our Organization to play an active part in promoting co-operation and understanding rather than maintaining the present precarious status quo, which was recently described from this very rostrum as a balance of terror.
61.	One of the main problems which continue to disturb all nations is that of Berlin. We believe that the so-called problem of Berlin must be considered within the framework of the reunification of Germany and must be solved through appropriate negotiations among the interested parties, carried out in keeping with the applicable treaties. The present situation cannot be resolved unilaterally, and any desire to seek such a solution will only help to increase international tensions and the risks of a world conflagration.
62.	There can be no doubt that important steps have recently been taken in our Organization as regards the speeding up of independence for the Non-Self-Governing Territories. Venezuela, true to its inflexible anti-colonialist position, has played an active part in those efforts and has co-operated, most significantly by its work in the Committee of Seventeen, in the common endeavour to speed the demise of colonialism.
63.	Of very special importance to Venezuela is the item which was included in the agenda of this session of the General Assembly at the request of my country and which is entitled: "Question of boundaries between Venezuela and the territory of British Guiana". On this I can give the following information.
64.	For a good part of the past century, there were long and sometimes bitter disputes between Venezuela and Great Britain with regard to the boundaries of their respective territories in Guiana. On becoming an independent republic, we had inherited from Spain all the territory which up to 1810 formed the Capitanía General de Venezuela. In Guiana this territory was adjacent to the Dutch settlements of the Essequibo. By the Treaty of London of 13 August 1814 the Netherlands ceded approximately 20,000 square miles of this Dutch colony to Great Britain. The ceded territories bear the names of Essequibo, Demerara and Berbice. At the expense of Venezuela and contrary to all legality, the British colony began to expand, and rich areas of our land were incorporated by a powerful Great Britain during the period of Victorian imperialism at such a pace that by the middle of the last century the 20,000 square miles had grown to 60,000 and, by the end of the century, had turned into a claim of an area of 109,000 square miles. There was no holding back Great Britain in its ambitions, and the territory which it desired would have stretched to the very mouth of the Orinoco, one of the great rivers of South America and the most important in Venezuela.
65.	Our repeated protests to Great Britain over the occupation of our territory received no response, and Venezuela, weak though it was but sustained by a deep feeling of national dignity, broke off diplomatic relations with the British Government.
66.	The United States of America became alarmed by the British expansion in Venezuela, and President Cleveland exercised his influence with a view to obtaining Great Britain's agreement to the request by Venezuela that the boundaries question should be submitted to arbitration. In 1897, the representatives of Venezuela and Great Britain signed at Washington an arbitration agreement creating an arbitral tribunal for the purpose of determining the dividing line between Venezuela and the colony of British Guiana. Under that agreement an arbitral tribunal was created consisting of five judges: two Britons, two from the United States of America and, as President, the Russian professor, Frederic de Martens. The rules by which the case was to be studied and decided were laid down, as is customary, in the arbitration agreement. However, when the award was made, no attention whatever was paid to those rules, the sole source of authority which the arbitrators had for making an award in the case submitted to them. The arbitral award, which failed to state the grounds on which it was made, gave Great Britain 45,000 of the 50,000 square miles in dispute.
67.	A famous former President of the United States and a man of exemplary public and private conduct, Mr. Benjamin Harrison, was our legal counsel in the proceedings. We know that Harrison, animated by his sense of justice, devoted himself to a thorough and passionate examination of Venezuela's case. He defended our high interests with all the zeal that would have been shown by a good son of Venezuela. Harrison's colleague in these delicate tasks was a New York attorney, Mr. Severo Mallet-Prevost, who could never reconcile himself to the idea of the larceny done to Venezuela and who, in a memorandum published shortly after his death, tore a hole in the curtain of mystery which for years concealed what had happened in a very private room of the Quai d'Orsay, in Paris, at noon on 3 October 1899. That was when the so-called arbitral award was made. Mallet-Prevost states: "When all the speeches had been concluded in the month of August or early September the court adjourned so as to allow the arbitrators to confer and render their decision. Several days passed while we anxiously waited, but one afternoon I received a message from Justice Brewer [one of the United States judges] saying that he and Chief Justice Fuller [the other United States judge] would like to speak with me and asking me to meet them at once at their hotel. I immediately went there. "When I was shown into the apartment where the two American arbitrators were waiting for me, Justice Brewer arose and said quite excitedly: 'Mallet-Prevost, it is useless any longer to keep up this farce pretending that we are judges and that you are counsel. The Chief and I have decided to disclose to you confidentially just what has passed. Martens [the Chairman of the Arbitration Tribunal] has been to see us. He informs us that Russell and Collins [the two British judges] are ready to decide in favour of the Schomburgk Line which, starting from Point Barima on the coast, would give Great Britain the control of the main mouth of the Orinoco; that if we insist on starting the line on the coast at the Moruca River he will side with the British and approve the Schomburgk Line as the true boundary. 'However', he added that, 'he, Martens, is anxious to have a unanimous decision; and if we will agree to accept the line which he proposes he will secure the acquiescence of Lord Russell and Lord Collins and so make the decision unanimous.' What Martens then proposed was that the line on the coast should start at some distance south-east of Point Barima so as to give Venezuela control of the Orinoco mouth; and that the line should connect with the Schomburgk Line at some distance in the interior leaving to Venezuela the control of the Orinoco mouth and some 5,000 square miles of territory around that mouth. "That is what Martens has proposed. 'The Chief and I are of the opinion that the boundary on the coast should start at the Moruca River. The question for us to decide is as to whether we shall agree to Martens' proposal or whether we shall file dissenting opinions. Under these circumstances the Chief and I have decided that we must consult you, and I now state to you that we are prepared to follow whichever of the two courses you wish us to do.' From what Justice Brewer had just said, and from the change which we had all noticed in Lord Collins, I became convinced and still believe [continues Mallet-Prevost] that during Martens' visit to England a deal had been concluded between Russia and Great Britain to decide the case along the lines suggested by Martens and that pressure to that end had in some way been exerted on Collins to follow that course, I naturally felt that the responsibility which I was asked to shoulder was greater than I could alone bear. I so stated to the two arbitrators and I asked for permission to consult General Harrison. This they gave and I immediately went to General Harrison’s apartment to confer on the subject with. him. "After disclosing to General Harrison what had just passed he rose in indignation and paring the floor described the action of Great Britain and Russia in terms which it is needless for me to repeat. His first reaction was to ask Fuller and Brewer to file dissenting opinions, but, after cooling down and considering the matter from a practical standpoint, he said; 'Mallet-Prevost, if it should ever be known that we hail it in our power to save for Venezuela the mouth of the Orinoco and failed to do so we should never be forgiven. What Martens proposes is iniquitous, but I see nothing for Fuller and Brewer to do but to agree.' "I concurred with General Harrison and so advised Chief Justice Fuller and Justice Brewer. The decision which was accordingly rendered was unanimous but while it gave to Venezuela the most important strategic point at issue it was unjust to Venezuela and deprived her of very extensive and important territory to which, in my opinion. Great Britain had not the shadow of a right.”
68.	Mallet-Prevost’s account is of special importance. In the first place, it coincides with the view widely held from the very moment of the court's award, namely, that that award was the outcome of a political compromise rather than of the application of the rules of law to which the parties had agreed. Nor was this the only occasion on which Mallet-Prevost, a man of honour and discretion, referred to the matter. The injustice perpetrated on Venezuela made a permanent impression on him and left him with an unpleasant memory. Thanks to a careful inquiry recently made by my Government, we have been able to obtain evidence which corroborates Mallet-Prevost's testimony.
69.	In due course we shall publish all this evidence. For the time being we shall confine ourselves to citing a few statements. In December 1899 Richard Olney, ex-Secretary of State of the United States, wrote the following, which I shall quote in its original English text: "Upon his return to New York Mr. Mallet-Prevost, Venezuela's junior counsel, was anxious to tell me how the thing went and why it went as it did. On one of my New York visits I asked him to dine — with the result that he consumed less food than time and that the feast was not so much a flow of solid or liquid refreshment as of intense wrath and bitterness of soul at the course and decision of the arbitral tribunal. I refrain from going into particulars because no doubt you have already heard them from some other source. The worst result to be feared, apparently, is not the loss of territory to Venezuela but the general discrediting of the cause of arbitration. According to my informant, both the Chief Justice and Brewer are down on arbitration as a mode of settling international disputes unless some new safeguarding of the rights of parties can be provided, Ex-Secretary John W. Foster, with whom I dined here the other day, said Fuller and Brewer had come home pretty sick of arbitration."
70.	Ex-President Harrison, like Mallet-Prevost and others whom we shall quote in due course, also left on record his displeasure and indignation at the treatment meted out to Venezuela by the Arbitration Tribunal. In December 1899 Harrison made the following statement: "My experience in Paris last summer developed in my mind some very grave difficulties in the way of a satisfactory arbitration of international disputes, and more particularly of American questions. The European Governments decline absolutely to allow that any American State except the United States is competent to furnish an umpire or even one of several disinterested members of a court. The result is that the ultimate decision of every American question is in the hands of a European umpire. The diplomatic habits and purposes of the great European Governments are wholly out of line with ours. "The seizure and appropriation of the territories of weak nations is a practice to which all of them are committed, and our Central and South American States can hardly secure fair treatment. "In the Venezuelan case I thought the Tribunal was constituted upon a judicial, and not a representative, basis and I made the strongest appeal I ever addressed to a court for the determination of the questions before the Tribunal in a purely judicial spirit. It was an utter failure. "The British judges were almost as distinctly partisan as the British counsel. That there should be, upon such a tribunal, representatives is an anomaly and an outrage. "If the findings of arbitration tribunals are to be influenced by the votes and private arguments of the representatives of the two nations and their decisions are not to establish the right but to enforce compromises, then arbitration can never be an institution. It will remain as it has been — a mere expedient."
71.	On 7 October 1899, four days after the arbitration award was made, Harrison had already spoken as follows: "The British judges were as always aggressive advocates rather than judges. Law is nothing to a British judge, it seems, when it is a matter of extending British dominion."
72.	On another occasion, on 15 January 1900, Harrison said: "As to Lord Russell's advice that a judicial spirit be exercised in these matters, I have only to say that neither he nor his British associates practised that good doctrine. I could tell, but will not write, some incidents that would surprise you. I believe that it is possible for an American judge, and perhaps for judges of some other nations, to exercise that judicial spirit in international controversies; but I do not believe it is possible for an Englishman. "In controversies between individuals the English courts are conspicuously fair and independent, but when it comes to a question of extending the domain of Great Britain, and especially when gold-fields are involved, it is too much to hope. The decision in the Venezuelan case, as a compromise, gave to Venezuela the strategic points but robbed her of a great deal of territory which I do not question would have been given to her by an impartial judicial tribunal. The modern European idea is that there is nothing illegal or even immoral in the appropriation of territories of weaker states."
73.	We are linked by good and cordial relations with Great Britain and our neighbours in British Guiana, whose political independence we look forward to celebrating with particular warmth. Because of these good relations we are able to make Great Britain and British Guiana the following proposal: that we should seat ourselves round a table like friends and discuss, with minds free of prejudice, the redress of the injustice perpetrated on Venezuela at a time of misfortune which our people cannot forget, with a view to finding a solution giving due weight to the legitimate interests of Venezuela and of the population of British Guiana.
74.	May the spirit of understanding guide us all along the road to redress and justice.


===== Session 18 - 1963 =====
We welcome the election of His Excellency Dr. Carlos Sosa Rodríguez, the representative of Venezuela, as President of this General Assembly at so important a moment in international affairs, as a sign of the esteem in which our country is held and a recognition of the devoted service to peace rendered by my distinguished compatriot over so many years. On behalf of my Government, I should like to express our deep gratitude to all who have honoured him with their vote.
2.	The atmosphere at this session of the General Assembly seems less charged with tension than at last year's session and although it is impossible, no matter how optimistic one would wish to be, to ignore the difficulties which threaten the peace and security of the world or some parts of the world, there is one outstanding event of such scope and significance that I must mention it at the very beginning of my speech. I refer to the treaty recently signed in Moscow by the United States of America, the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom, on the prohibition of nuclear tests in outer space, in the atmosphere and under water. This treaty has been greeted by nearly all countries as an augury of peace. I have pleasure in announcing that Venezuela has affixed its signature to this treaty as a sign that it shares with the other signatories the desire for peace that is so deeply felt by all mankind.
3.	The health of an international organization depends on the will for peace and the spirit of understanding displayed by its members. Without these essential ingredients, the doors are open to anarchy and the path to war is swift. The existence of nuclear weapons —and this cannot be said too often— so increases the gravity of any action not directed towards peace, which is our fundamental problem that a solution of force would mean the wreck of all man's hopes and achievements. Thus there is no need to stress the responsibility which would lie with the atomic Powers if their political and diplomatic relations were not governed by caution and reflection, and a desire for understanding.
4.	The position in the United Nations and in the Organization of American States of those countries which, like Venezuela, have no stronger arsenal than their respect for principles and their international undertakings, is clear and sincere. We are a country which loves not only peace but also freedom and democracy. Venezuela's history is one of a long fight for freedom to live in a democratic society, grounded in the deep egalitarian convictions of our people. For many of you, it is not easy to understand our dramatic history and the change that has taken place in the last few years. The usual picture of Venezuela and Latin America in general is false more often than not. Stress has been laid on the picturesque. Even the general use of the term Latin America or Latin Americans leads to confusion. Someone once asked what was the capital of Latin America. It should be made quite clear that Latin America is a conventional expression. Although we have common denominators, each of our countries has its own personality and basic characteristics. Venezuela is one of the richest countries in the Americas but it is only in the last few years that its wealth has begun to be exploited. During the nineteenth century and well into the twentieth it was a poor country, whose economic life depended upon the export of coffee and cocoa. We had no university or printing press in the sixteenth century, like Mexico and Peru. We were a Spanish overseas province, poor and forgotten, which achieved its first university in 1725 and its first printing press in 1808, but Venezuelans ran an active contraband in ideas. Books prohibited by the civil authorities or banned by the Inquisition were read and commented on in the silence of colonial nights. My compatriots were familiar with all the literature of the time, with the great current of liberal thought. Thus was nurtured our most brilliant generation, the generation of 1810, restless men possessed by the Romantic demon of liberty and glory. The leader of this generation, and one of the great political thinkers of his time, was Simón Bolívar. I mention this here, in the United Nations, because this Organization, like the League of Nations at Geneva before it, is closely bound up with the ideas of Bolívar, who created the first association of nations that the world has known. I want to stress this historical fact in order to show that we in Latin America are not simply nations with a past made up of civil war, tyrants and dictators; we have a noble and illustrious political and diplomatic tradition that explains our faith in international organizations.
5.	In 1826, on Bolívar's initiative, a Congress was held in Panama for the purpose of setting up a great continental confederation consisting of all the American nations, which would maintain peace among its member States and between them and the rest of the world and provide a common defence for the rights of the members of the confederation. Dr. J. M. Yepes, the distinguished Colombian student of international affairs, has the following to say of this Congress: "Nothing was lacking that we should today consider essential for the proper functioning of an institution of this kind. The qualification for membership of the proposed confederation was laid down: all American States, the only requirement for admission being signature of the articles of confederation. The supreme authority of the confederation was defined: i.e., the 'General Assembly’, a democratic body in which each member State was represented on a footing of complete juridical equality with the rest. The policy of the association was also specifically defined: maintenance of peace, collective security, mutual defence and assistance against aggression; guarantees of the political independence and territorial integrity of member States; peaceful settlement of all international disputes, whatever their nature or origin; codification of international law; finally, the just use of force to safeguard the rule of law.".
6.	Dr. Yepes says that Bolívar was the precursor of the League of Nations, and this is so, for Article 10 of the Covenant of the League of Nations which guarantees the political independence and territorial integrity of all Members of the League, was a copy or literal reproduction of certain articles in the Treaty of Panama of 1826.
7.	In a commentary on this article, Albert de la Pradelle, a professor of the University of Paris, said that Article 10 of the Covenant of the League of Nations was simply the extension of Simón Bolivar's doctrine to the whole world.
8.	Like other Latin American countries, Venezuela, despite an illustrious past, a tradition of freedom and a strong desire to set its affairs in order to attain that degree of economic and social development to which it is lawfully entitled, was subjected to the most cruel dictatorships after it achieved political independence on the battle-field. These, without exception, have hampered its progress in every respect.
9.	Despite this grave drawback, Venezuelans never lost their faith in freedom and fought for it constantly. They never forgot their democratic vocation. During the last century dictatorial governments, with one or two exceptions, were in power and this went on until 1935, the year in which the death of the dictator put an end to one of the worst dictatorships the country has ever suffered. From that moment changes were introduced into Venezuelan public life but it was not until 1945 that a democratic revolutionary movement-led by Romulo Betancourt and his Democratic Action party —introduced for the first time direct suffrage in the election of the President of the Republic. Before that time —in 1936 and 1941— the President was elected by Congress. One of Venezuela's oldest and most heart-felt aspirations has now been realized.
10.	In 1948 Venezuela elected as Its Head of Government, by popular vote one of its most distinguished nationals and its greatest novelist, Romulo Gallegos. In the same year, however, a coup d'état defeated this attempt to establish a democratic system in Venezuela. For ten long years the country suffered under a new dictatorship, the cruellest and most immoral in all its history.
11.	This dictatorship was overthrown in 1958, and in 1959, by the popular will, as a result of elections of exemplary legality, Romulo Betancourt became President of the Republic. The name of this distinguished Venezuelan —who will shortly complete, for the first time in the history of Venezuela, his term of office as constitutional President, elected by his people by an overwhelming majority— is closely linked to the fight for the political and democratic regeneration of Venezuela.
12.	All Latin American democracy owes a debt to Betancourt. Faithful to Bolívar's best and most noble tradition, he has always been concerned about democracy in Latin America, being convinced that a democratically strong America can withstand the onslaught of totalitarianism, whether of the right or of the left. We want effective democracy in Venezuela. We desire it just as strongly for the rest of America.
13.	In line with these views which President Betancourt has held for many years, and held long before he became our Head of Government in 1945, Venezuela does not recognize Governments arising out of coups d'état. This has been our practice and we do not regard it as constituting intervention in the affairs of the States whose de facto Governments we do not recognize.
14.	On one occasion, when a coup was carried out against the legitimate Government of a country to the south of us, Venezuela proposed a meeting of the American Foreign Ministers to consider the situation. In so doing we had the support of Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, the Dominican Republic, Honduras and Bolivia.
15.	In spite of our wishes, this meeting was not held. We lacked enough votes to convene it, but at least we placed on record the feelings of a group of democratic countries about the need to study coups d'état in Latin America.
16.	I should explain that the Organization of American States does not consist merely of peace-loving countries, as does the United Nations, but of countries which, besides being peace-loving, must be democratic,
17.	The basis and the aim of the Organization of American States is the existence, in Latin America, or in America, to include the whole continent, of democratic regimes.
18.	As I said before, this meeting of Foreign Ministers, which we wanted to hold in July of last year, did not take place.
19.	In the last six months, three lawfully constituted Governments have been overthrown in Latin America by force. The last, only a few days ago, was the Government of the Dominican Republic.
20.	This is a real misfortune, for the Dominican Republic is one of the countries in Latin America and the world at large which has suffered most from dictatorships. The last, which ended with the death of the dictator, lasted for thirty years. Children who were ten years old in 1930, lived until they were forty without having known any other system than a cruel, ironclad dictatorship.
21.	Those of us who have faith in democratic government, in freedom and respect for human dignity, are deeply concerned over the proliferation of regimes of this kind in America, and it would be most serious for the Organization of American States if on this occasion we were merely to look on with our arms folded.
22.	If tomorrow the Organization of American States —whose aim is to ensure the existence of democratic governments in our continent— were to be composed of a majority of representatives of dictatorships, it would be not only a challenge to the Organization itself, it would be more serious than a contradiction; it would be a farce.
23.	The doctrines upheld by my Government are based on the Charter of the Organization of American States, which stipulates: "The solidarity of American States and the high aims which are sought through it require the political organization of those States on the basis of the effective exercise of representative democracy." The coup d’état against a legitimately constituted Government is, as I said before, a challenge to the other American States and to the Organization itself. We earnestly hope that this system will in the course of time prevail in our continent, not only because it corresponds to the deep-rooted love of freedom of our peoples, but because, practically speaking, it is the best and surest guarantee against any system of totalitarian stamp.
24.	We want to keep Venezuela a modern State. We have had our setbacks, but the balance sheet is favourable. We believe that, politically speaking, our position is the right one and the one that is most in conformity with our character and our traditions.
25.	The only way in which we shall manage to establish democracy as a system of government in our own country or in any other American country is by practising it, since the effective exercise of democracy is also a matter of education. Democracy cannot be a reality if at the same time it is not endowed with a social meaning and does not effect the reforms required to ensure a better distribution of the wealth of the country and thereby raise the level of living of the population.
26.	Furthermore, by its very nature, the democratic form of government promotes the honest use of the country’s resources, whereas under dictatorships those resources are dishonestly manipulated to the detriment of the economic and social development of the people and for the exclusive benefit of the dictator.
27.	The hallmark of American dictatorships has been speculation. Such was the case of the last one suffered by my country, but the dictator, who had settled in the United States, is at present in prison in Venezuela awaiting trial. He was handed over by the United States of America in compliance with the Extradition Treaty in force between our two countries. This is a most significant fact, not only because it is the first time in the history of America that an ex-dictator has been extradited but because it draws attention to a matter that cries out for settlement, namely the recovery of the illegally appropriated public funds. At the Interparliamentary Union held at Brasilia in 1962, a draft convention was considered "on measures to be taken in the international field against those guilty, in the exercise of public office, of fraudulent enrichment prejudicial to the public interest."
28.	I think that we are treading the right democratic path. We in Venezuela believe in the power of votes. At this moment, my countrymen are in the process of electing a President of the Republic and the Members of Congress, Already more than 3,300,000 persons have registered, representing 92 per cent of the electorate of Venezuela.
29.	In order to give some idea of what we have accomplished in Venezuela in our four years of constitutional government, I could cite figures revealing our achievement in the economic, social and cultural fields, but I must not tax the patience of representatives. I may point out, however, that our industrial, agricultural and livestock production has increased and that new products have been exported; that we now have a life expectancy of 66 years; that we are producing iron and steel; that the country can be crossed from one end to the other on paved roads; that, thanks to land reform, more than 60,000 families, totalling 300,000 persons, in the zones of greatest demographic pressure have been resettled; that our petroleum production rose from 151 million cubic metres in 1959 to 185 million in 1962 and exports of petroleum during the same period rose from 109 million to 128 million cubic metres.
30.	With reference to education in Venezuela, I am happy to be able to state here that the general educational policy of my country has the following characteristics: it is democratic; it is a right that belongs to every inhabitant of the country; it concentrates on the all-round development of the human person; it is neutral in both political and religious matters; at the primary level it is compulsory; it is free at all levels; the state universities are autonomous and free; it collaborates in general and zonal plans for the economic and social development of the country; it provides a compulsory literacy course for those over fourteen years old; it is "contributional", that is, without lessening the responsibility of the parents the State provides means of access to education; and, lastly, Venezuela education shares the common cultural aims of the world.
31.	The population of Venezuela is barely 8 million. It is essential to bear that in mind in order to appreciate the statistics that I shall give. For example, the population of school age (7 to 13 years) is 1,400,000, or 17 per cent of the total population. For the school- year 1957-1958, the last year of the dictatorship, the pre-school and primary school registration amounted to only 752,000 pupils, with 21,000 teachers in 6,700 schools. Registration has now risen to 1,400,000 pupils in 12,600 schools with 37,200 teachers. This means a total of 600,000 more children enrolled, or an increase of 80 per cent, during the constitutional five years, while the number of teachers has increased 78 per cent and the number of schools by 89 per cent during the same period. I shall not go on citing figures but shall only mention that in our universities there are at present more than 5,000 engineering students, almost 6,000 students of economics and 4,189 persons studying the humanities. I apologize, but I could not resist the temptation of giving a few facts which are essential for the development of a democracy possessed of social and human meaning.
32.	The main trend in world economic movements at present is towards regional integration. My country is following these movements with interest in so far as they may lead to the expansion or contraction of our foreign trade. I wish to repeat here what my (government has already stated at previous sessions of the General Assembly; it is becoming more and more imperative to take into account the negative repercussions on the less developed countries of the trade policies of regional economic groupings of the highly industrialized nations. Since for the expansion of their trade the developing countries depend on their raw materials as an indispensable means of exchange, it is essential that certain lines of conduct should be laid down for the highly developed countries and that the terms of trade should be kept within equitable limits.
33.	At the beginning of this year, the Government of Venezuela accredited a special embassy to the European Economic Community in order to maintain constant and close ties with that association. My country is intensely interested in maintaining and expanding those traditional European markets, from which we receive a high and varied percentage of goods and to which we send considerable amounts of raw materials.
34.	Venezuela has also followed very closely the development of the Latin American Free-Trade Association (LAFTA), which we consider to be the most important step taken in the contemporary Latin American economy. We live in a continent embroiled by its economic and social weaknesses, and we are fighting against time, within our freely chosen democratic institutions, in our search for solutions to those problems that hamper the development of our peoples. It is clear that the liberalization and intensification of Latin American trade will strengthen the productive capacity of all our countries and raise the social standard of our peoples.
35.	Those reasons have led us to be present at the meetings so far held by LAFTA. Last April, for instance, Venezuela sent an observer to the meetings on trade policy held at Bogota and on the planning of industrial development held at Lima. We were also represented at all the branch meetings that the Association has held since last June.
36.	Last May the national Government set up a Commission for the Study of the Economic Integration of Latin America, composed of representatives of the Ministries of Production and of the private sector.
37.	For Venezuela, as for any other country, membership of LAFTA entails decisions that not only bind the members to comply with the minimum commitments set forth in the Treaty of Montevideo but also mean adopting new criteria in the general economic policy of the country, both as far as foreign trade and its organization are concerned and in regard to other branches of the national economy.
38.	Venezuelan imports amount to about $1,200 million a year, $30 million of which represents purchases from Latin American countries. Some 70 to 80 per cent of that sum represents trade between Venezuela and countries committed to LAFTA. These figures give some idea of the potential of our market and at the same time of the possibilities of increasing our trade with the Association.
39.	Despite the caution and interest with which my Government is following the evolution of the movements towards regional economic integration, it is still my country's policy to give priority to the permanent features of the economies that are susceptible of integration, because it is precisely these lasting traits that will later produce a favourable balance in the movement towards the development of the region and of the world in which we live. As evidence of this point of view, I am happy to mention the recently concluded Agreement of San Cristóbal, signed on 7 August of this year between the Presidents of Colombia and Venezuela, which recognizes the need for joint efforts to ensure a balanced economic development of the Táchira River Basin. "The contiguity of the territories of the area and the fundamentally complementary nature of their natural resources, as also the common sources of the cultural heritage and historical traditions of both nations, are conditions that will ensure good results from this policy". In the opinion of my Government, and doubtless in Colombia's opinion, too, as far as economic co-operation between our two countries is concerned, the San Cristóbal Agreement constitutes a valuable contribution to Latin American economic integration and is fully consonant with the new and rational trend of these integration movements.
40.	At its seventeenth session, the General Assembly adopted resolution 1785 (XVII) calling for a United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, whose consequences and repercussions on the development and very nature of international trade will inevitably be far-reaching.
41.	Venezuela has carefully studied the conclusions of the Preparatory Committee set up by the General Assembly, and especially the joint statement by representatives of developing countries. We now await with interest the comments on the provisional agenda that the Preparatory Committee has proposed, through the Economic and Social Council.
42.	We share the view that if international trade is to be a "powerful instrument and vehicle of economic development", then a "dynamic international trade policy" is required. We consider that the way to such a policy is to be found in part III of the joint statement, where it enumerates four fundamental points on which the Conference might approve specific measures: expansion of trade between countries at a similar level of development and at different stages of development; the reduction of barriers and restrictions impeding trade; increasing the volume of exports of the developing countries in primary products to the industrialized countries; and the expansion of the markets for exports of manufactures and semi-manufactures from the developing countries. These should certainly be the fundamental points for discussion and the basis of the new world trade policy sponsored and supported by the United Nations.
43.	Venezuela's term on the Security Council will expire at the end of this year, since we were elected at the sixteenth session of the General Assembly. We accepted the office in full knowledge of the responsibility we were assuming, but we did so unhesitatingly because of our belief in peace and our respect for the purposes and principles of the United Nations. We also felt that we could contribute to the solution of the serious problems dealt with in the Security Council.
44.	My country's participation in the work of the Security Council is enshrined in the archives of the United Nations, which bear witness to the fact that Venezuela's action was always prompted by concern for the maintenance of international peace and security, recognition of the principle of self-determination, and respect for human dignity.
45.	Venezuela shares with other Member States the responsibility conferred upon it by the General Assembly in the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples. We have maintained our anti-colonialist position and have worked to ensure that the recommendations and decisions of the Special Committee should satisfy the aspirations to freedom of the peoples who are still under colonial domination.
46.	Despite some important progress in the task of implementing the Declaration on the granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples and the great efforts made by the United Nations in that direction, we must recognize the fact that there are still territories in which the obstacles to the implementation of the Declaration have not yet been removed.
47.	In conclusion, I should like to inform the General Assembly of a matter of singular importance to us. I refer to the question of the frontier between Venezuela and British Guiana. Last year, both in the General Assembly and in the Special Political Committee, I referred to this matter and as a result of the friendly conversations held with the representative of the United Kingdom, acting on behalf of his Government and that of British Guiana, we agreed to examine the documentation on the frontier dispute and to report back to the United Nations. I am glad to say that the last stage has been reached in the review of the documentation that led to the Arbitral Award of 1899, which was unfortunate for us in that it did our country a grave territorial injustice which we are now endeavouring to correct.
48.	I am also happy to announce that early in November of this year I am to meet the United Kingdom Minister of State for Foreign Affairs in London in order to complete the conversations arranged on that occasion.
49.	At the beginning of my statement I said that the present session of the General Assembly was opening in an atmosphere of less international tension. I pray that this atmosphere will continue, so that we shall be able to fulfil our mandate in the search for world peace. Let us seek peace also for the benefits that it engenders, for the material and spiritual development and growth that it fosters, and not only because its alternative is destruction.


===== Session 19 - 1964 =====
33.	Mr. President, on behalf of the Venezuelan Government and its delegation, and on my own behalf, I should like to offer you our warmest and most sincere congratulations on your election as President of the nineteenth session of the General Assembly. The unanimous vote you received bears witness to the great esteem and prestige you enjoy, both in your country and in this Organization, because of your outstanding personal qualities. At the same time I express the fervent hope that your actions will be crowned with many successes, leading to greater harmony in our debates and the adoption of effective decisions.
34.	Three new nations, Malawi, Malta and Zambia, have taken their places among the Members of this Organization. I extend a most sincere welcome to their distinguished delegations and express the confidence of the Venezuelan delegation that they will make a valuable contribution to the joint task of pacification, which is the main objective of the United Nations.
35.	Its historical traditions and the constant will of the majority of its people have led Venezuela to pursue an independent international policy, dictated solely by its steadfast devotion to democracy and by the basic interests of its people, within the framework of loyal and voluntary co-operation, which should be mutual and of reciprocal benefit to all the Members of this world Organization. The aim of this policy is the preservation and strengthening of Venezuela's political and economic independence, in conditions which not only permit but actually favour peaceful and constructive collaboration with all the other nations of the world. This assertion may sound presumptuous, but the Members of this Assembly are fully aware that democratic Venezuela has on many occasions proved its steadfast commitment to law, to its international obligations and to the loftiest principles of justice.
36.	In conformity with that policy, my country has encouraged and observed strict compliance with the principles and provisions of the United Nations Charter, both at the world level and at the regional level within the Organization of American States. This explains why our differences with other countries have never resulted in any aggression on the part of Venezuela. Even in those cases where there has been brazen intervention in our internal affairs, with the avowed aim of destroying what has been created by the self-determination of our people, my Government has had recourse to the appropriate international organization and through the justice of our cause, has obtained the condemnation of the aggressors. Similarly, it is by means of friendly negotiation and irrefutable historical and legal arguments that Venezuela is endeavouring to obtain reparation for an act which, through a transaction between third parties, disguised as an arbitral award, obviously invalid and unjust, deprived it of part of its territory, which is still under foreign domination.
37. Long before the United Nations was established, the objectives of this Organization were already deeply rooted in our history or were among the goals which the Venezuelan people were determined to attain. Devotion to peace, to liberty, to respect for human dignity and to adherence to the universal principles of law has been at the very heart of our existence as an independent nation.
38.	It is good to recognize and to proclaim that the successful peace-keeping activities of this world Organization, as also the hard-won progress it has achieved in the improvement of living standards in various regions of the world and in the accession to independence of a large group of colonial territories, do it great credit. But no one can expect mankind to be satisfied with the small fraction that has been achieved of the enormous task imposed by the fundamental objectives of the United Nations.
39.	The disquiet that this idea inevitably arouses does not, however, weaken our firm resolve to cooperate in the common struggle as we take part in this Assembly. In many parts of the world the Assembly is being watched with great concern, because of the havoc caused by apparently internal wars and the annihilation of human life by poverty, hunger, and racial and religious persecution, in open disrespect for the authority of this world Organization, which is called upon to remedy such evils, and in defiance of the real desires of the great majority of the peoples of the world.
40.	In the background of this panorama lurks the spectre of an atomic war. No sooner has a step forward been taken with the banning of nuclear explosions by the Powers possessing this deadly weapon, than new explosions increase the anxiety of the peace-loving peoples of the world and there is a feeling that, instead of progressing, we have moved backward along the path of coexistence. The universal hope that man's intelligence and scientific resources will be devoted to combating cruel diseases and creating better living standards and greater educational opportunities is discouraged by the fact that, in order to withstand the aggression of potential enemies, the so-called great Powers allocate thousands of millions of dollars in their budgets to cover the growing expenditure necessitated by the development of new weapons and monstrous means of destruction.
41.	The world is beginning to lose faith in the effectiveness of the efforts that have so far been made to achieve disarmament. In the short lapse of half a century mankind has witnessed the annihilation, in two world wars, not only of soldiers in the field but of civilian populations and it views with horror the threat of a new conflagration whose outcome cannot be foretold. To judge by present means of destruction, such a conflict would inevitably bring about the end of our civilization. That is why world public opinion clamours for more realistic and effective action, designed to end the arms race by means of an agreement ensuring universal disarmament with adequate control and guaranteeing the cessation of the manufacture of both strategical and technical atomic weapons.
42.	Despite the fact that emphasis is frequently laid upon the right of peoples to self-determination, there are Governments which, in covert and sometimes overt, brazen alliances with rebellious minorities, strive through violence to overthrow the legal, social and economic order that other peoples have established for themselves in the free exercise of their sovereignty. My Government and my people are deeply concerned by the tendency of some groups in various parts of the world to unleash hateful, cruel and inhuman racial persecution where none existed before or to exacerbate persecution where, unfortunately, it was already rampant. We wish to express here our hope, which is undoubtedly shared by the majority of the representatives present in this Assembly, that the United Nations will take effective steps, designed to put an end drastically to such outbreaks of racial hatred.
43.	It is not in a mood of pessimism or discouragement that Venezuela is attending this Assembly. On the contrary, it comes to offer its co-operation in order to give a greater and more determined impetus to mutual co-operation in a common endeavour to consolidate peaceful coexistence among nations of all ideologies, for the purpose of building a civilization worthy of God and of man.
44.	Due credit must be given to the technical and financial co-operation offered to Governments through the appropriate machinery of the United Nations and the international financial institutions, in support of the programmes of the developing countries. Nevertheless, the attempts to take practical steps towards the United Nations objectives of eradicating poverty and elimination, or at least alleviating, the economic inequality between peoples have proved unsuccessful. In this connexion we must draw attention to the commendable concern shown by our Secretary-General, U Thant, and the efforts he has undertaken to find a satisfactory solution.
45.	In order to attain these objectives, trade relations and development plans must be reinforced through mutual co-operation and self-help. But then there is the question of the exorbitant profits made by the economic Powers and the great international consortia. Thus the peoples of the world are hampered in the exercise of their right to live and develop worthily, on the basis of balanced trade and reasonable prices for their resources and the fruit of their labour.
46.	The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, held in 1964, demonstrated the imbalance that exists between the different areas of the world and the unavoidable need to correct it, and showed that an adequate revision of the terms of international trade is the only way of ensuring that wealth is equitably shared among all the peoples of the world. No one today can question the right of the developing countries to fair conditions for the sale of their products on world markets at prices comparable with those obtained by the products of the industrialized countries. There is similar inequality in the social and political fields, too, and it is to a large extent responsible for the continuance of present world tension. This, therefore, is one of the urgent problems which must be solved if lasting peace is to be maintained.
47.	Our civilization will be unable to move forward towards universal harmony and a full and decent life for mankind unless the great economic Powers abandon their nationalism and devote themselves with true zeal to contributing sincerely to an adequate readjustment of the trade between themselves and the developing countries. This is the only way to achieve an equilibrium which will enable the less developed nations to carry out their plans for progress, within a correlation of exports and imports which would encourage more satisfactory world distribution of the products of economic activity.
48.	That is why my country categorically and unconditionally supports the efforts of the so-called group of seventy-five countries which, at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development held at Geneva in 1964, expressed the aspirations of millions of men and women in all parts of the world, who demand their place in a world that is better for all and not just for a few. If we sincerely intend to build a world based on justice, the Geneva resolutions must not become a dead letter but must be given dynamic momentum by this Assembly.
49.	Venezuela recently attended the Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Cairo, as an observer. The deliberations of the Conference, with the exception of the aggressive statements of an interventionist country, left us with the hope that the action of those countries may be directed towards the pacification of the world and the creation of conditions of peaceful coexistence among all Governments. This would make it possible to devote their financial resources to the improvement of the material and spiritual standards of living of their peoples. We hope, however, that this rapprochement between the non-aligned countries will not lead to the establishment of organizations outside the United Nations, which would entail the fragmentation and dispersal of resources and efforts. It is essential to avoid weakening the central body, the only instrument that is capable of co-ordinating the will of all countries and in which world public opinion exercise the most effective influence.
50.	In order to attain the objectives of the United Nations, it is also essential to eliminate both political and economic colonialism, by means of the effective exercise of the right of peoples to self-determination, through universally accepted methods. I am convinced that not only Venezuela, but other countries which were forced to wage cruel wars in order to obtain independence, advocate the liberation of territories which, despite the fact that they have achieved the necessary political and cultural maturity, are still under colonial administration.
51.	This statement is a ratification of Venezuela's unchanging policy and I wish to stress once again that a territory's accession to independence must be effected without prejudice to the possible right of neighbouring nations to recover parts of their territory which have been wrested from them by force or by arrangements with a false veneer of legality. To ignore this right would be to run counter to the principle, enshrined in the Charter, of the territorial integrity of States and to the Declaration on the granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples.
52.	The Venezuelan delegation deems it pertinent to report that the tripartite talks concerning the recovery of part of the territory of the eastern region of Venezuela are proceeding according to the agreement reached in the Joint Communique of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Venezuela and the United Kingdom of 7 November 1963. The first stage was the meeting of experts of the three parties concerned, held at Caracas and in London, to discuss the results of their investigations and the documentary evidence concerning the question, and to proceed to the drafting of the reports to their respective Governments. As soon as those reports are submitted, a meeting will be held at Government level in accordance with the agreement reached in London in November 1963. The Venezuelan Government once again reaffirms its hopes that the question of frontiers with British Guiana will be pursued in the amicable spirit that has so far characterized these talks.
53.	The decisions of the regional bodies which lie within the United Nations orbit and are linked to it by specific clauses in the Charter, such as the Organization of American States (OAS), deserve the most resolute and unconditional support. It is necessary to preserve the force of their institutional principles and their objectives of promoting peace and the progress of their peoples within democratic regimes with a high level ex social justice and respect for human rights and for the freedom and dignity of the individual.
54.	Perhaps the most frequent cause of regional wars has hitherto been frontier disputes, to which has been added the emergence of a new type of indirect aggression. The latter is characterized by the assistance in money, propaganda material and weapons furnished by some States, to terrorist guerrilla groups which, having failed to win over public opinion in their countries by the usual methods of political campaigning and disseminating ideas, resort to violence and armed attacks in order to overthrow the institutions which the people have established for themselves. In addition to representing a backward step in the world's political evolution, this phenomenon represents a growing threat to peaceful coexistence among peoples who have adopted different systems of government.
55.	Venezuela maintains that in order to eliminate both causes of war it is necessary to put into practice the standards and principles enunciated in the Charter of the United Nations and in the regional organizations. We feel, however, that the countries represented here should resolve to study the characteristics and methods of the new form of indirect aggression. It is a serious matter and represents a threat to the maintenance of peace; we think that in order to counteract its effects a special agreement might be concluded, containing rules and procedures and establishing exemplary sanctions to be applied against Governments which appear to be guilty of such acts of intervention and indirect aggression.
56.	in this connexion, we have the impression that the results of the recent meeting in Mexico of the Special Committee on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States were very meagre. Further joint efforts are therefore urgently needed to enable this Committee, strengthened by the wisdom and support of this Assembly, to achieve more concrete results, both in the domain just mentioned and in the codification of international law.
57.	In order to corroborate the sincerity and accuracy of what I have said, I should like to quote two paragraphs from the Preamble to the National Constitution of Venezuela, with which my Government is bound to comply; "Co-operating with all other nations and especially with the sister Republics of the Continent, in the aims of the international community, based on mutual respect for sovereignties, the self-determination of peoples, the universal guarantee of the individual and social rights of the human person, and the repudiation of war, conquest and economic predominance as instruments of international policy; "Supporting the democratic order as the sole means that may never be surrendered of ensuring the rights and dignity of citizens and favouring the peaceful extension thereof to all the peoples of the earth."
58.	Finally, I should like to express our faith in the United Nations and our determination to work for its survival. We are sure that this desire is shared by all Member States, great and small. This Assembly is the only adequate world forum in which the small States can make their voice heard and the Organization is the most appropriate instrument for seeking a solution to their problems. It is the so-called small States which have the greatest interest in seeing that our Organization emerges successfully from the present crisis. It is those States, too, which constitute a majority in the United Nations and which cannot therefore permit the disappearance or diminished effectiveness of the only body capable, at the present state of international co-operation, of preserving peace and contributing to the solution of the numerous problems confronting mankind.
59.	We therefore hope that the obstacles hindering the normal progress of the work of the Assembly will disappear and that the latter will shortly be able to begin its important work in an atmosphere of harmony and co-operation.

===== Session 20 - 1965 =====
32. Mr. President, your election as President of the twentieth session of the General Assembly deprived us of the pleasure of receiving you in Venezuela during the visit of His Excellency Giuseppe Saragat, President of the Italian Republic, who received a very warm welcome from our people and from the large and esteemed Italian colony living and working among us. Nevertheless, the Government and people of Venezuela are delighted that you have been entrusted with the Presidency of the Assembly since, thanks to your experience as a statesman and to your well-known personal gifts, we have every reason to look forward to fruitful results. We wish also to pay a tribute through you to Italy, symbol of Latinity, whose culture is thus inseparably linked with our own.
33. We should like to congratulate the former President of the General Assembly, Mr. Alex Quaison-Sackey, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Ghana, a country with which, as with other nations of
the African continent, Venezuela has just established diplomatic relations, on the constructive and skilful work he performed in response to the demands made upon him at the difficult time when he was called upon to preside over the Assembly.
34. After hearing the inspiring message of His Holiness Pope Paul VI it is no easy task to find suitable words with which to address this Assembly. The visit of the Supreme Pontiff was a red-letter day in the history of the United Nations. The Pope's message, coming at the end of twenty years of this Organization's existence, invites us to profound meditation and to an appraisal of what has been accomplished so that we may gain a clearer vision of the future of this Organization, which, as His Holiness Pope Paul VI said, is "the obligatory road of modern civilization and of world peace" [1347th meeting, para, 24].
35. The message, full of humility, and therefore of wisdom and greatness, spoken by "an expert in humanity" as His Holiness himself said, has opened up new prospects for the United Nations and it must be heeded. Is it not the United Nations ideal to achieve what was said in that message? With what humility but with what wisdom the Pope spoke also of the fulfilment of "a wish we have been carrying in our heart for nearly twenty centuries" [ibid., para. 23], as if to say: do not despair if in the twenty years of your life you have succeeded in doing only part of the enormous task which was entrusted to you.
36. But the message is above all a call for peace, A call for peace at a time when war is appearing in various parts of the globe. A message of peace addressed not only to mankind but above all to those who are sitting in this hall and whose duty it is to build peace.
37. Only a few days ago, on 6 September, we celebrated the 150th anniversary of the so-called Charter of Jamaica, one of the most important documents emanating from the genius of Simon Bolivar, In it the liberator of five South American nations adumbrated the idea of an association of free and sovereign nations for the purpose of establishing an international legal order, an idea which took shape some years later when, on his initiative, the amphiotyonic Congress of Panama was held in 1826, Allow me to quote a few sentences from this prophetic document:
"It is a grandiose idea to try and weld the entire New World into a single nation with a single link uniting its separate parts with each other and with the whole... How beautiful it would be for the Isthmus of Panama to be for our nations what the Corinthian Isthmus was for the Greeks, Would to God that some day we might enjoy the happiness of having there an august Congress of representatives of the republics, kingdoms and empires of America to deal with the high interests of peace and of war with the nations of the other three parts of the world...."
38. He has rightly, therefore, been considered a precursor of international organizations, as was acknowledged by the League of Nations on 2 October 1930 when its Assembly approved unanimously the following resolution:
 
"Recalling that on 17 December next will take place the centenary of Simon Bolivar, who by his initiative and his efforts to ensure the reign of justice and peace between peoples was a precursor of the League of Nations;
"Expresses its gratitude and admiration for the memory of Bolivar and associates itself with the tribute which the American republics will be paying him."
39. The United Nations is now completing the first twenty years of its existence. To reach this anniversary, which is but one year short of its majority, it has had to overcome grave crises which have threatened its very existence. At the nineteenth session of the Assembly we who met here were almost convinced that the so-called financial crisis would bring about the collapse of this Organization, which, born of the great desire for peace and harmony, was regarded by the peoples of this earth as a beacon of hope at the end of the Second World War.
40. With good will that difficulty too has been overcome, though only temporarily. It is therefore essential to arrive at a definitive settlement of the controversy, which directly affects the raison d'être of this Organization, i.e. the provision of adequate means for the peaceful settlement of disputes.
41. The United Nations constitutes a whole and, as such, it depends on the goodwill of its Member States. It is purile to declare, as Member States often do, that the world Organization is inadequate, that it does not possess the means to achieve its ends and that it is incapable of settling the disputes which beset mankind.
42. The effectiveness of ineffectiveness of the United Nations depends solely on the goodwill and determined support of its Members. If the United Nations has defects, if its rules are deficient or contain gaps which occasionally make them appear to be ineffective, it is our fault for not correcting them and adapting them to the changing circumstances of our times. Let us undertake the task with faith and good-will and the result will certainly be to reduce — I wish I could say to eliminate — the causes for the alarm which is felt by people throughout the world.
43. The international legal order which twentieth century man has built up patiently and at great sacrifice and which must be the basis of this world Organization is founded on principles and postulates of self-determination of peoples, non-intervention in the domestic affairs of other countries, the sovereign equality of States and respect for human rights, which acknowledge life to be the supreme gift and proclaim respect for the dignity of the human person.
44. The practice of these precepts can be achieved only through international organizations — the United Nations and the regional organizations — which must be zealous guardians of those rights and supreme tribunals to hear complaints of violations and to determine means of redress. My country has always respected and will always respect these procedures and principles, as is clear from the very letter of its Constitution and from its conduct in the field of international relations.
45. For that reason it is justifiably concerned about the claim sometimes made that circumstances of the moment may require a return to the old formula of unhappy memory, namely, that countries can, by themselves and by the use of force, solve the problems resulting from the violation of those principles. Such an attitude is self-contradictory because it is not possible to punish a violation of International law by the use of procedures violating the principles which have been infringed and which are the very principles Invoked as the reason for punishment.
46. We cannot Ignore — and I made reference to this In my statement to this Assembly last year [1295th meeting] — the new forms of indirect aggression which run counter to the principle of non-intervention and are characterized by the assistance given by some States, in the form of material resources, money, armaments and propaganda, to armed groups that have infiltrated into other countries to help bring about the downfall of institutional forms of government which were freely adopted.
47. In view of the recurrence of this phenomenon, which is obvious to everyone, we reaffirm the need for the countries represented in this world Organization to agree to study with sincerity and urgency the characteristics and methods of this new form of aggression, with the firm intention of concluding a special covenant which will provide means for combating such aggression effectively and adequate sanctions to be applied to Governments found guilty of such acts of intervention and indirect aggression. To fail to consider such situations in accordance with the contractual obligations governing international relations would be to disregard reality and to encourage the pessimistic view of some that when it comes to self-defence, principles must be thrown overboard.
48. Venezuela is still experiencing attacks from sectors which, through this type of activity and with the material and moral support of maladjusted groups who lend themselves to such designs, have tried to impose on our country ideologies and doctrines alien to the spirit and conscience of our people, with the intention of depriving our people of the rights and freedoms which they have won at such great sacrifice.
49. Fortunately, far from being weakened by this type of activity, the democratic régime is growing stronger and consolidating itself to an ever increasing extent. It is significant that the Inter-American Committee for the Alliance for Progress, in a recently published report on my country, has noted that both last year and this year Venezuela has continued its advance in the various aspects of economic development and is one of the countries which are attaining most rapidly and completely the objectives laid down in the Charter of Punta del Este. In overcoming its economic difficulties, Venezuela is at the same time solving the social problems of its people and it has also made important progress in education, health, community development and agrarian reform.
50. At the meeting of the Inter-American Committee for the Alliance for Progress which examined the report to which I have referred, the Venezuelan delegates said that if the Government of my country maintained the level of its international reserves it would study the possibility of participating In the programmes of the Alliance for Progress by granting financial assistance to other countries or to regional institutions in Latin America.
51. This is tangible evidence of how a country with a democratic system of government in which the supporters of the most diverse political trends are co-operating fully and harmoniously, as is the private sector, too, can deal with the political, economic and social difficulties facing every country in this age of convulsions in which we live and above all with the very special problems of the American continent.
52. The highest praise is due to the efforts of the United Nations and to the patient and persistent endeavours of the Secretary-General, U Thant, to settle the conflicts which, unfortunately, have broken out in various parts of the world. The results achieved so far in connexion with the dispute between India and Pakistan are worthy of mention. At the request of the Secretary-General, the Venezuelan Government hastened to send a group of ten officers of the Venezuelan armed forces to serve with those of other countries as United Nations observers for the implementation of the Security Council's cease-fire decision Which was a first step towards a settlement of the dispute between those two countries of Asia, both of which are good friends of Venezuela's and will, we ardently hope, find a means of living in harmony as good neighbours and thus, in a spirit of brotherhood, attaining the stages of development and progress demanded by their peoples. It is also our profound hope that the problem of Cyprus will soon be solved, once and for all, by peaceful means.
53. With regard to the Viet-Nam conflict, Venezuela hopes that the offer of the United States of America to negotiate anywhere and at any time, without conditions, will be heeded and taken up by the parties concerned, so that the foundations may be laid for an acceptable and lasting solution. The United States proposal has been made on several occasions by the President of the United States and repeated in this Assembly [1334th meeting] by its Permanent Representative, Mr. Goldberg. A similar position has been taken by the non-aligned countries, by the United Kingdom and by the Secretary-General, U Thant.
54. It is no exaggeration to say that all the inhabitants of the world are anxiously awaiting a satisfactory outcome of the protracted conversations on disarmament, and, above all, the conclusion of agreements to prohibit the production of nuclear weapons and prevent their proliferation among the countries of the world. We should not forget the jubilation which greeted the signing of the 1963 Moscow Treaty prohibiting nuclear explosions in the atmosphere, in outer space and under water. This Treaty was a promising first step, which unfortunately has not yet been followed by other steps marking an advance. In this connexion I take the liberty of drawing attention to the proposal submitted in Geneva by the present President of the Assembly, Mr. Fanfani. Its adoption would improve the situation and would constitute a positive step on the long road towards a general treaty on disarmament.
55. Before the Second World War, the peoples of the world believed, with good reason, that another war would destroy the achievements of thousands of years of civilization. Nevertheless, in spite of the deaths, the destruction of institutions and the spiritual damage which that war caused, the world has found new strength and the accelerated progress of science and technology have given new hope to mankind. But now the nuclear war which threatens us would, according to all the forecasts, undoubtedly mean the end of the world as we know it. Could there be any valid reason, from either a theoretical or a practical point of view, to justify a total holocaust?
56. Perhaps the most feasible and immediately attainable step at the moment with regard to disarmament would be a treaty on the non-dissemination of nuclear weapons. Venezuela will support It wholeheartedly, as it will support any other measure which will help to ward off the peril of atomic war.
57. In our own region, almost all the Latin countries of the continent have concluded initial agreements on the denuclearization of Latin America. We hope that the States which possess nuclear weapons and devices will respect this unanimous wish of the peoples of Latin America.
58. In keeping with the position that it took at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development held at Geneva in 1964, Venezuela firmly supports the proposals made by the developing countries, of which our country is one. We welcomed the establishment of the Trade and Development Board as an important step towards achieving the objectives set forth at the Geneva Conference, With increasing urgency, for obvious reasons of justice and with a view to a more satisfactory distribution of wealth, a better organization of international trade is needed in order to allow the manufactured products and raw materials of the developing countries to have access to world markets under equitable conditions.
59. Problems also confront our regional organization, the Organization of American States (OAS). The American countries have always been justifiably proud of their organization, which was the first of its kind and is an expression of the solidarity and interdependence of the nations of our hemisphere, In spite of all the problems and difficulties to which attention can be drawn, the OAS is playing an important role In the relations and the political and economic cooperation among our countries. It should be the aim of all of us to correct the defects of OAS and to make it stronger and better able to act speedily; in that regard, the forthcoming Special Inter-American Conference, to be held at Rio de Janeiro at the end of 1965, is a good opportunity which it would be unforgivable to throw away. My country offers the sister countries of the continent its co-operation and trusts that there will be a harmonious meeting of minds at the Rio Conference.
60. The crisis in the Dominican Republic was extremely serious not only for that country, to which It brought suffering and hardship, but also for the inter-American system, which was profoundly affected. We are happy that, with the establishment of the Provisional Government, our sister Republic is now on the road towards the restoration of a normal constitutional life through the holding of free elections. All American countries must give their moral and economic support so that that objective may be attained.
61. One of the most praiseworthy achievements of the United Nations has been the role it has played in the process of decolonization. Venezuela has a right to be proud of its unchanging attitude of opposition to colonialism and of support for the inalienable rights of peoples, under the political or economic domination of other peoples, who have aspired or aspire to self-determination and independence. Before the adoption in 1960 of the General Assembly's historic resolution 1514 (XV) on the granting of Independence to colonial countries and peoples, for which we naturally voted, Venezuela had already made known its views in support of the principles enshrined in that resolution.
62. Ever since the establishment of what we now know as the Committee of Twenty-Four, we have not only been a member of it “But have co-operated actively and enthusiastically in seeking the most appropriate methods and procedures for the full implementation of the Declaration and for carrying out the mandate given to the Committee by the General Assembly. Consequently, as in previous cases, we are happy to welcome the Gambia, Singapore and the Maldive Islands, which have recently been admitted to this great family of nations as Member States. Without doubt, their presence in the United-Nations will make a useful and valuable contribution towards the fulfilment of the goals of the Organization.
63. In spite of the progress achieved and of the fact that this is unquestionably one of the fields in which the United Nations has been most successful, it must be noted that there are still peoples and territories under colonial rule. America, like other continents, is not yet completely rid of this evil. There are still territories which, having been detached from an independent State with no more justification than the principle that might is right, remain under the sway of a colonial Power.
64. These territories cannot escape the correcting processes of history. But we must insist on a point that has been stressed in the various resolutions adopted by inter-American conferences, namely, the distinction between colonies and occupied territories. Whereas the former must obtain independence through the application of the principle of self-determination, the latter, colonial territories which have been seized from other States, cannot be decolonized in any other way than through reintegration with the State from which they were detached. To fail to make such a distinction would be to allow the principle of self-determination to be twisted for the purpose of justifying a de facto situation, without regard for the fundamental principle of respect for the territorial integrity of States. This principle Is safeguarded, of course, in paragraph 6 of resolution 1514 (XV) itself, which states that: "Any attempt aimed at the partial or total disruption of the national unity and the territorial integrity of a country is incompatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations." The question of Guayana Esequiba, an area of Venezuelan territory occupied by a colonial Power and annexed to a colony, is a case covered by that paragraph.
65. At the First Special Inter-American Conference, held at Washington in December 1964, the countries of America made a formal declaration which supplements those made earlier regarding occupied territories and which we think it appropriate to quote, although it was quoted by our colleague from Argentina, Mr. Zavala Ortiz, in his statement in the general debate [1337th meeting]. The Act of Washington states:
"That the Council of the Organization shall not take any decisions with respect to a request for admission on the part of a political entity whose territory, in whole or in part, is subject, prior to the date of this resolution, to litigation or claim between an extracontinental country and one or more member states of the Organization of American States, until the dispute has been ended by some peaceful procedure."
66. Here in the United Nations, on 22 February, 1 October and 12 November 1962, my country solemnly repudiated the so-called arbitral award of 1899, although long before that, on more than one occasion, it had voiced its claims and its protest against this inequitable and invalid decision which supposedly fixed our boundaries.
67. I wish to reiterate once more my Government's unshakable position. Venezuela does not recognize the so-called arbitral award of 1899 as having any validity. An award with serious legal defects cannot have any force.
68. I should like to use before this world body the words of Mr. Raúl Leoni, the President of the Republic of Venezuela, in order to express the unchangeable decision of the Government of my country with regard to the award to which I have referred: "Venezuela is working actively and will not abandon its aspirations, for they are based on the restoration of rights which were denied to it in an irrational and brutal way and without any foundation, in a decision which was contrary to law. The award is null and void — that is to say, it has no legal existence."
69. On behalf of my country, I address myself to all the nations represented here, the colonial countries of yesterday and the newly independent countries of today, our brothers in the fight for freedom. I wish to appeal to them all to give their moral support to our efforts to obtain a just solution to this old territorial problem. It is in the interests of British Guiana, of the United Kingdom and of the whole American continent that this problem should be satisfactorily settled at an early date.
70. The fact that my country maintains its claim irrespective of any change in the status of the present colony of British Guiana in no way means that we are placing obstacles in the way of that colony's independence. Whatever the status of British Guiana, the rights of Venezuela will be the same, since they are inalienable and in conformity with paragraph 6 of General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV).
71. Speaking of the paramount principles of "international equity and morality". President Leoni, in his first message to the National Congress, expressed himself in the following clear language, which I take the liberty of repeating before the world:
"In the same way, we shall continue the negotiations with the United Kingdom Government initiated by the previous Government concerning the frontiers with British Guiana, since it is well known that the Tribunal which handed down the Paris Arbitral Award of 1899 exceeded its specific functions and fixed a compromise line which was not in accordance with law. This does not mean, as has been made very clear, that our lawful claim will obstruct or hinder the aspirations to independence, of the people of British Guiana, who can count upon the sympathy of the Venezuelan nation."
72. Conversations with the United Kingdom on this problem have continued, with the participation of British Guiana, in accordance with the agreement reached in the joint communiqué of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Venezuela and the United Kingdom, dated 7 November 1963. We shall inform this world body of the results of these talks in due course.
73. Venezuela, a country in which social democracy has always existed, maintains its firm stand against racist theories, which contradict the Christian concept of human dignity, a concept which does not allow of distinctions based on the colour of a person's skin. Venezuela therefore condemns the policies of apartheid and resolutely supports the efforts of the United Nations to put an end to the enforcement of these. Inhuman policies.
74. Venezuela has complete faith in this Organization. We are convinced that in spite of its imperfections — as we have said earlier — it is the only body capable of giving concrete form, if only in part, to the yearnings of contemporary mankind for Justice, order and peace. I should therefore like to end my statement by echoing the message of His Holiness Paul VI, and quoting this paragraph:
"The building you have made must never again fall in ruins; it must be perfected and confirmed to the demands world history will make. You mark a stage in the development of mankind: henceforth no turning back, you must go forward." [1347th meeting, para. 26.]


===== Session 21 - 1966 =====
114.     The delegation which I lead considers it a most wise decision to elect Ambassador Pazhwak as President of the twenty-first session of the General Assembly. He has called upon the serene guidance of reason to govern his term of office, and he may rest assured that we share with him the hope that the highest of human faculties will prevail in the deliberations of this world forum of nations. We have full confidence in his experience and in the exhaustive knowledge of international affairs which he has acquired during his long and worthy activities in the United Nations.

115.    I am happy to have this opportunity of mentioning the President of the last session, Mr. Amintore Fanfani, Foreign Minister of the Italian Republic, who carried out with skill and intelligence the difficult tasks inherent in that high post, while at the same time bringing into these solemn halls a touch of Mediterranean gaiety.

116.    Once again, I wish to put on record the satisfaction of the people and Government of Venezuela at the independence of Guyana. We were particularly happy to welcome our neighbors into the community of sovereign nations and hope to develop ever closer links of friendship and co-operation with them. It is in this spirit that we have fully supported the admission of Guyana to the United Nations, without prejudice, of course, to the territorial rights claimed by Venezuela.

117.    During the general debate at the twentieth session of the General Assembly, I offered to inform the United Nations of the developments in the territorial dispute between Venezuela and the United Kingdom regarding the frontier of British Guiana, In this connexion, I am happy to say that a conference was held in London in December 1965, at which both countries were represented as was the then British Guiana, the result of which was a decision to hold a further meeting in Geneva in February of this year. This led to the signature on 17 February 1966, of an "Agreement to resolve the controversy between Venezuela and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland over the frontier between Venezuela and British Guiana". This agreement, to which Guyana became a party on its accession to independence, opens the way to a peaceful solution of the controversy and gives the United Nations, in the person of its Secretary-General, a very important part to play. The Joint Commission established under the Agreement has already held two meetings, the first at Caracas and the second at Georgetown, Venezuela trusts that good faith in the fulfilment of the provisions of the Geneva Agreement will lead to a definitive settlement of these differences in conformity with justice and law.

118.    My delegation wishes to express its satisfaction at the return of Indonesia to membership of the United Nations, where, we are sure, it will contribute, together with the other States, to the progress of this Organization.

"This has been a year in which, to all those looking and working towards larger international co-operation for the peace and well-being of mankind, the disappointments will seem to have outweighed once more the modest gains made in some directions."

119.    Such are the opening words of the Secretary-General in the introduction to his annual report [A/630l/Add.1, p. 1], The moderate tone is not enough to allay the feelings of frustration that they arouse in the hopes for peace and progress of the peoples of the earth.

120.    The fear of a disastrous future, if failures continue on the road to disarmament, the improvement of living standards, the ending of conflicts and the easing of tension is becoming increasingly man's constant companion. Our great poet, Andres Eloy Blanco, then Chancellor of Venezuela, stated from this very rostrum that fear is a creator of mythologies and religions, but a very poor adviser for solving problems. Nothing good can come from the mind of the faint-hearted statesman who thinks only of maintaining defensive positions.

121.    Venezuela wishes to reaffirm once again at this forum of the nations its fervent desire for peace. The conflicts which are at present bathing in blood some regions of the world are a constant grief to the Venezuelan people and Government. It is our most sincere desire that a way may be found to resolve peacefully the war now being waged in Viet- Nam which, as time goes on, becomes ever more complex and more likely to assume world-wide proportions.

122.    Would that Venezuela could put forward some formula for the settlement of the conflict, but the interest and ideologies involved are so many and so varied that it is impossible for countries on the sidelines to participate directly in a solution, and their contribution must be confined to an appeal for the restoration of peace. Venezuela is, of course, prepared at all times to give its moral support to the use of appropriate peaceful means to put an end to that war, since it is becoming more obvious every day that the problem can have no military solution but only a political one.

123.    It is distressing to see that after so many centuries of unremitting struggle for understanding and toleration, attempts are still being made to impose by blood and fire ideologies and systems which man will certainly have transcended within a few years. The rapprochement, based on tolerance and understanding, of the great religions is a significant phenomenon which should be heeded. Why should not the world's political leaders follow this salutary example and work actively and sincerely to undermine the obdurate positions arising from racial prejudice, economic and political systems or any other transient beliefs, products of ambition and sources of disastrous and destructive power? The precincts of this great world Organization would present a very different picture if delegations brought with them from their leaders instructions to conciliate and understand, rather than to try and impose their viewpoints by threats, as is their custom.

124.    It has often been said before, but bears repetition, that the present tension in the world would be reduced if positive progress could be made in the three following fields: in disarmament, in the elimination or, at least, a significant diminution in racial and ideological intolerance, and in the reorganization of international markets.

125.    The direct and logical consequence of the liberation of resources through effective disarmament treaties would be to enable the nations to devote the corresponding funds to solving those problems of underdevelopment which bedevil many regions of the world, imposing a sad burden of hunger, discontent and anxiety with a consequent lowering of human dignity. This in turn would ease the pressure of the needy masses and their urgent demands.

126.    Are we to give up hope of advancing along the road to disarmament because so many years have been taken up in negotiations, proposals and dilatory measures without positive results? Paradoxically, disarmament would be at once the cause and the effect of a reduction in tension. It will, however, be difficult to achieve until the whole of mankind, with due preparation and with definite objectives, modifies the traditional concepts based on national prestige which is so often upheld by retaliation and force.

127.    If the idea of harmony that inspired the creation of the United Nations and of its predecessor, the League of Nations, were carried to its logical conclusion, the Organization would be able to play the moral and material part required of it in solving the problems of peace and war.

128.    My Government has offered its fullest support to the projected denuclearization of Latin America and has attended the various meetings held at Mexico City for the purpose of drafting a treaty to ensure the denuclearization of that important geographical area. At these meetings, we maintained that such a measure should be considered within the general context of disarmament and it was emphasized that such an instrument would not be operative unless all the countries in the region participated and the nuclear Powers respected the terms of the treaty,

129.    On the initiative of Venezuela, the Fourth Session of the Preparatory Commission for the Denuclearization of Latin America, which was to have been held on 30 August last in Mexico, was postponed until the end of next January. One of the reasons for requesting the postponement was to give more time for Governments to study the draft treaty and to prepare their observations. Furthermore, we believed that the twenty-first session of the General Assembly offered a good opportunity to the representatives of the Governments concerned to exchange views on this important question. We hope that the nuclear Powers will accept this step as a collateral disarmament measure.

130.    The universal reaction to the recent Judgment of the International Court of Justice on the problem of South West Africa was one of amazement. Far from resolving the case, the decision, based on subordinate considerations, has made it even more explosive. My delegation considers that the decision should have been to confirm the obligation of the Republic of South Africa to give an account of its Mandate to the United Nations. What has happened is very serious, since no decision was made on the substance of the matter, and this implies the deferment of the problem with all the tension involved.

131.    Venezuela avails itself of this opportunity to restate its position of opposition to any form of racial discrimination and similar practices. The people of Venezuela, an example of the coexistence of all the races which have intermingled to form it, rejects the outrageous creed of apartheid which is opposed to its deepest beliefs and practices.

132.    The President of my country, Dr. Radi Leoni, recently met the Heads of State of Chile and Colombia in the capital of the Republic of Colombia, the meeting being also attended by personal representatives of the Presidents of Ecuador and Peru. This memorable meeting demonstrated the spirit of international collaboration which animates the President of Venezuela and the other leaders present.

133.    Far from restricting to the attendant countries the agreements reached by the meeting, invitations were extended to the sister countries of the continent to continue unfalteringly along the road to social, cultural and economic co-operation and to pursue their efforts for the economic integration of the Latin American nations. On the political side, the Declaration reaffirms the signatories' faith in the United Nations and their belief in the need to resolve the military conflicts existing in various parts of the world today, with particular reference to Viet-Nam. We also fervently reiterated our firm belief in democratic institutions, in respect for human rights and in economic and social development as the essential and inseparable preconditions for guaranteeing the freedom and welfare of the American nations.

134.    It is discouraging to observe signs of deterioration in the relative positions of the developing countries Within the framework of the world economy and the part played in that unhappy development by the present system of international trade. This deterioration has been a decisive factor in the slowing down of the Latin American growth rate, and has constituted a major obstacle to the region's development. The existing differences in the economic levels of the developing countries and of the economically developed countries has increased in the last five years. We see more clearly every day that the objectives of the "United Nations Development Decade" will not be achieved, since the gap between countries is widening rather than closing, despite the hopes and efforts of the international community.

135.    Venezuela would be failing in Its duty and responsibilities as a Member of the United Nations if it did not put to this Assembly the necessity of reviewing and reforming the foundations on which international aid Is based. Only radical and profound changes in concepts and institutions will change the distressing prospects of the world economy. The deterioration in the terms of trade, the reduction in growth rate, the instability of commodity prices, the restrictions imposed by the industrial countries on the exports of manufactured and semi-manufactured goods, the stagnation of international aid and the "conditional" loans are among the reasons for the alarm with which many international and regional economic organizations view the present situation.

136.    There can be no doubt that the promotion of economic development is the most extraordinary and difficult task of our time. Under-development is the cause of political Insecurity and an active agent in the disturbance of world peace. I believe that the economic and social Imbalances of the greater part of the world community have become materially worse.

137.    We do not claim that development can be achieved through International co-operation alone. A persistent and orderly domestic effort is essential but the rate of investment required cannot be achieved without an appreciable Improvement in the terms of international trade. Exports must be diversified, Industries promoted, the geographic area of our trade expanded and foreign resources obtained on better terms. Every effort must be made to procure juster and more stable conditions for the foreign trade in our primary commodities. Latin America still depends on the export of primary commodities falling under the headings of foodstuffs, raw materials, and mineral products. We are not prepared to accept Indefinitely an economic system under which the counterpart to our exports, for which we are underpaid, is the import of very highly priced manufactured products.

138.    It has been said in this Organization that the Industrialized nations should not dispute the right of less developed countries to markets for their primary commodities. It Is already instrinsically difficult to finance development. The developing countries are faced with a difficult situation with respect to the export of primary commodities, since they are compelled to limit their purchases of capital goods from the industrialized countries.

139.    The Secretary-General, U Thant, In the introduction to his annual report, stated:

"The Industrially advanced countries have a particular responsibility in this field because of the magnitude of their resources of technology and capital. They must show the necessary foresight to be able to give up limited short-term interests in favour of the long-term benefits to be derived by the world as a whole from upgrading the productivity of two thirds of mankind to levels that are now technically impossible." [A/6301/Add.1, P. 8.]

140.    Referring to the specific case of Latin America which, with minor exceptions, is the same as that of all the developing countries, I want to voice our concern at the inadequate progress achieved in rectifying the economic policy of the industrialized countries with respect to the obstacles hampering the access of primary commodities to those countries' markets, among which are customs tariffs, domestic taxes, quantitative restrictions, and marketing policies for surplus goods. This is reflected in constant changes of prices which affect our foreign-currency earnings and limit the economic and social growth of our countries.

141.    The execution of development programmes is sometimes hindered by political and social instability; at other times, by famine and epidemics. In other cases, adverse and unforeseen events affecting our export earnings have compelled us to abandon or suspend our original development plans. In such circumstances, the question of finding a satisfactory solution to the problems affecting trade with the industrialized countries cannot be postponed, especially in so far as the deterioration in the terms of international trade is concerned.

142.    In many cases, to the chronic payments deficits must be added the resistance of the industrialized countries to the suggestion that they should abandon their protectionist practices and co-operate in solving the problems raised by primary commodities.

143.    The present structure of international trade, based on the division between countries exporting manufactured goods and countries producing raw materials — the former the developed countries and the latter the developing countries — has proved unable to achieve a better balance in international economic relations and has brought with it what the Swedish economist, Myrdal, has called "the disintegration of world economies".

144.    I should like to refer now to the financing of economic development, and to draw this Assembly's attention to the well-known paradox that the developing countries are poor because they have very little capital to invest and have very little capital to invest because they are poor. That is why the industrialized countries have an inescapable responsibility to help those weaker economies to improve their capacity for financing their own development.

145.    The reduction in the flow of resources towards the developing countries is a reason for disquiet. Not only has that rate not achieved the objective of 1 per cent of the national net income of the developed countries, but it has progressively diminished over the past five years. The conditions for loans must also be liberalized. In some cases, the service on the debts absorbs so great a proportion of hard-currency earnings that it raises doubts as to the efficacy of credits. Moreover, the international capital flow will have to depend less on the balance of payments in the developed market-economy countries and be governed more by the objectives laid down for the United Nations Development Decade.

146.    We appeal to the developed countries to supply a more intense and continuous flow of long-term loans while reducing the number of conditional credits, or else grant them at prices which are competitive on the world markets and to accept reimbursement of part of the loan in manufactured goods, services and agricultural surpluses, without prejudice to the normal exports of the beneficiary countries, or tore- invest part of the sums refunded in the debtor countries.

147.    Venezuela is fully aware of the need to expand and accelerate the process of Latin American integration. Trade between the Latin American countries is of little significance in comparison with the total volume of their purchases and sales. The results being obtained in the Central American region and the area of the Latin American Free-Trade Association reflect the favourable prospects offered for regional trade.

148.    The Bogota Declaration, to which I referred earlier, is not simply an invitation to the countries of America but rather a reaffirmation of the common interests of the developing countries and of their need, in full agreement between themselves, to demand changes and promote conditions that will ensure just treatment and enable them to overcome the various stages of under-development.

149.    The difficult circumstances at present prevailing, which I have dealt with partly in this statement to the General Assembly, have given an inevitably pessimistic note to my intervention. Nevertheless, Venezuela, its Government and its people, will spare no effort to secure harmony in the international concert. None of the nations represented here can escape the serious duty of breathing life into the Principles and Purposes that are the very basis of the United Nations Charter.

150.    My country has already had occasion to express its views on the announcement by the Secretary-General, U Thant, that he will not accept re-election for a new term. The Secretary-General's decision is grave, as are its consequences for this world Organization. U Thant has said that he does not believe that anyone is indispensable in a given post. There are nevertheless situations in which the circumstances are such as to render a man indispensable: the United Nations and U Thant are faced with one of those situations.

===== Session 22 - 1967 =====
1. Mr. President, the Venezuelan delegation was gratified by your election to the presidency of the twenty-second session of the General Assembly.
2. It is fitting to mention that Venezuela has recently established diplomatic relations with your country, the Socialist Republic of Romania, and we have no doubt that this will redound to the benefit of both States.
3. In your inaugural statement, you described the Organization as an instrument for strengthening world peace, and you expressed a sincere desire to contribute to the creation of a climate propitious for the settlement of the great international problems. Your abilities equip you, I am sure, for the noble task which you have set yourself. We must also pay a tribute to the skilful manner in which Mr. Pazhwak of Afghanistan conducted the proceedings of the previous session.
4. I should also like to say a word of appreciation to the Secretary-General, who in his interesting annual report to the General Assembly of [A/6701] has given a very lucid account of the work of the United Nations.
5. An analysis of the events of the past year certainly gives no grounds for optimism. The same conflicts continue; some of them have worsened; and new conflicts have broken out. Perhaps the only encouraging sign is that the countries have reaffirmed their will to avoid at all costs any final confrontation. We must all be of one accord in strengthening the Organization and endowing it with effective means of keeping the peace. Yet some important nations cling to views which make this impossible; for example, the Committee of Thirty-Three, despite its efforts, has still not attained its objectives.
6. It is no exaggeration to say that the problem of Viet-Nam is a matter of the utmost concern to the entire world. The fact that not all the countries directly involved in the conflict are represented in the United Nations reduces the chances of finding a solution to it. As has been said and repeated time and time again, the solution can be only a political one. Only the countries involved in the situation are capable of settling it. The rest of us can but express our concern and our fervent hope that the situation will shortly be restored to normal.
7. The General Assembly is once again faced with the question of the Middle East. When this matter was discussed at the emergency special session of the General Assembly the prevailing atmosphere was not the most propitious imaginable for a real solution. Fortunately, the Security Council had previously arranged a cease-fire. We believe that a new effort during the present session, in full awareness of the urgency but in a calmer atmosphere, will offer a better chance of success. There can be no doubt that the present situation demands a political solution to the problem. A satisfactory end to the conflict must be sought which at the same time will preserve the prestige of the United Nations.
8. The problem of the Middle East, which the United Nations has had to face in varied and at times dramatic circumstances, is one of world-wide significance because of its vast and complex repercussions. Every one of the Member States can help towards its solution. The greatest responsibility, however, lies with the countries directly concerned, and they must be prepared to adopt a reasonable solution satisfactory to all parties in its essential elements. The General Assembly nevertheless cannot be expected to bring about a final settlement in one move. We must proceed by stages, never losing sight of the ultimate goal, namely the establishment of conditions in which a lasting peace can be achieved.
9. The Venezuelan delegation, inspired by the attitude of the Latin American delegations at the fifth emergency special session of the General Assembly, considers that the measures calculated to create a climate propitious for a final settlement should begin first and foremost with the withdrawal of Israel troops from the occupied territories. At the same time, the parties to the conflict would have to refrain from any belligerent attitude that might lead to acts of war and behave in a manner in keeping with the provisions of the Charter. We shall have come no nearer to settling the conflict unless such a change of heart is forthcoming.
10. Israel's concern to have its frontiers guaranteed is perfectly legitimate, and it is equally obvious that such a guarantee must extend to the neighbouring States also. Similarly, the obligations inherent in any agreement will have to be freely accepted; in fact otherwise any results which might be achieved would be short-lived. Of particular importance among the other points that should be taken into account in the search for a solution are the right of all nations to freedom of navigation through International waters, particularly the Gulf of Aqaba; the acute problem of the refugees, which far from improving has worsened; and the status of Jerusalem, bearing in mind that the city is the meeting point of three of the world's great religions.
11. On the question of decolonization, the line taken by Venezuela is quite clear. Everyone is aware of my country's solidarity with those struggling for self-determination and independence; it has always been and still is based simply and solely on our adherence to the principle of freedom for men and for peoples. We have the courage of our convictions.
12. The Venezuelan Government continues to regard with concern the problem of South West Africa as well as the practice of the policy of apartheid and the question of Rhodesia. The first two are directly concerned with South Africa, and all of them are survivals of the colonial period.
13. Once again we must state with pride that Latin America has been first in the field in concluding a treaty for regional denuclearization. Apart from its intrinsic value, the Treaty of Tlatelolco, signed in Mexico in February 1967, serves as encouragement for continuing the negotiations for world disarmament. Another important step in this connexion will betaken when the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies [Resolution 2222 (XXI) and Annex] comes into force shortly.
14. As a step towards the control of nuclear weapons, we can point to the draft treaties prepared by the United States and the Soviet Union on the nonproliferation of such weapons. We are all awaiting with interest the report shortly to be submitted by the Secretary-General on nuclear weapons; we have no doubt that it will bring up new points for consideration in regard to this important programme.
15. In the treaty on denuclearization already referred to, Latin America proclaims that:
"... general and complete disarmament under effective international control is a vital matter which all the peoples of the world equally demand". [A/6663, p. 13].
16. Venezuela respects the principle of self-determination for all peoples. This principle, together with that of non-intervention, constitutes the basis of coexistence among nations. My country embarked on independent statehood with that unwavering attitude which embodies respect for the sovereignty of other States and the vigilant defence of its own. Venezuelan troops have gone beyond the frontiers of our country only to contribute to the emancipation movements of other neighbouring States.
17. The attitude of the Cuban Government has twice forced us to have recourse to the Organization of American States. On the second occasion, at the Meeting of Consultation of Ministers of Foreign Affairs which ended in Washington last week, it was unanimously decided to ask the countries members of OAS — which are also Member States of this Organization — to submit to the United Nations the problem threatening peace as a result of the Cuban Government's acts, which openly and publicly flout the provisions of General Assembly resolution 2131 (XX). This places the Cuban problem in a political context in keeping with its true international proportions.
18. This decision represents the unanimous will of the American States and voices the grave concern of all the Latin American countries, which we wish to convey to this Assembly. We are sure that the prestige of Latin America, which consistently champions the just causes of oppressed peoples, fully warrants the position we have adopted.
19. The United Nations came into being twenty-two years ago for the essential purpose of promoting the social, political and economic progress of mankind in an atmosphere of freedom, peace and security. Until the Second World War, colonialism and nationalism were the predominant themes. The problem of development and the concept of economic integration appeared only recently, and there is a certain degree of interdependence between the two. Economic development must go hand-in-hand with independence in the economic relations of the country or community. Integration, in its turn, seeks the expansion of markets within a region comprising independent economies. Later came the idea of international co-operation as a direct means of speeding up the development process of the economically less prosperous countries.
20. A cause of concern for the United Nations has been the implementation of economic development plans, which have not come up to expectations. It has been found not only that the results achieved by the United Nations Development Decade have fallen short of the minimum targets, but that even the levels attained previously have not been reached. This situation calls for serious thought and the application of the appropriate corrective measures. It might quite well be shown that, within the current world economic framework, it is impossible to achieve the desired level of economic development without removing the limitations imposed by national economies. In his search for well-being, man tends to establish economic systems on a broader basis than that of the national State, and it has been said that international co-operation is inadequate as a means of achieving development.
21. If we agree that within present-day possibilities economic integration is the most direct means of promoting development, and if we recognize that one of the basic aims of the United Nations is to ensure that mankind achieves a state of well-being, then the Organization must be expected to help to further the process of economic integration in the various geographical regions and zones of the international community. Thus we deem it wise to begin the study and planning of any changes and adjustments needed to adapt the existing machinery to the technical and financial assistance requirements of integration programmes submitted to the United Nations organs for consideration.22. Economic integration raises a series of problems so wide and complex that it requires the co-operation of all the various sectors, public and private, in the countries of the integrated area. At government level, fiscal and economic policy measures are called for. The private sector should view integration as an advanced form of international trade. Economic integration offers the entrepreneur an expansion of markets and the chance to raise his productive capacity to the maximum. It also ensures basic stability in the production process and rapid and secure marketing of products.
23. When my country became a member of the Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA), I had the opportunity to express the views of the Venezuelan Government on the problem of regional economic integration. In my statement I stressed the need to take decisions which would represent firm and positive steps towards the creation of an economic area large enough to ensure our development. Venezuela is aware of the need to translate into concrete facts all the studies undertaken and the views expressed on the subject; for that reason, we whole-heartedly support the projects aimed at establishing a system of planned tariff reform and a common external tariff, and the proposals for subregional and area agreements within LAFTA. We must make a valiant effort to put an end to internal economic imbalances which lead to persistent migration from the rural areas to the towns, with the consequent emergence of a marginal sector of the population; to foster bold reforms of the tax systems, which are often inequitable and archaic; to form rational plans for improving standards of living, while trying to prevent this from becoming a mere attempt to prevent population growth; in short, to carry out national integration at all levels. This is the way, in which each nation taking a reasonably objective view of its own economic structure, should help to strengthen and harmonize the main regional economic policies.
24. It has been said that the growth of interest in economic integration among the less developed countries seemed to be due more to a desire to emulate the European Common Market than to a conscious desire to promote their own development. The fact is that it is an economic concept of universal validity, antedating the European experiment; furthermore, in the case of the Latin American countries, there was the concern at the possibility of losing their European markets, as well as the overriding need to establish a regional organization to promote the development of Latin America. Thus integration has become a "must" among developing countries throughout the world.
25. Within our continent, the American Chiefs of State, meeting at Punta del Este in April this year, proclaimed at the highest political level the need for the total economic integration of Latin America as the only means of ensuring the harmonious development of the countries of the continent.
26. The Ministerial Meeting of the Group of Seventy-Seven which will take place at Algiers in a few days' time emphasizes the need for all the developing countries to review, within the context of their own national economies, the degree of co-operation received from the industrialized countries.
27. The problems confronting the developing countries call for capital investment on a scale which the countries themselves cannot supply owing to the weakness of their economic structure, The flow of capital from the developed to the developing countries has been at a standstill for the past five years, despite the fact that the earnings of the developed countries have risen considerably. There is every reason to think that the situation will become more acute in the next few years unless there is a considerable change in the policy adopted by the industrialized nations.
28. The vital problem confronting us as developing countries is, and will continue to be for some time, the conditions governing the marketing of our basic export products and, in general, the terms of trade.
29. The main achievement thus far is the creation of an awareness of this problem in the international community, for little progress has been made in actually achieving the desired objectives. The Second United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, which will take place at New Delhi in 1968, offers a new opportunity for realistic and effective planning of measures that should be adopted within the framework of UNCTAD in the next few years. That occasion will be a crucial test of the readiness of the more developed countries to face the need to contribute all they can to the solution of one of the world's serious problems: the widening economic and social gap between their countries and ours. In this connexion, the views expressed by the Secretary-General on the United Nations Development Decade In his Annual Report [A/6701J merits our full support.
30. Although Venezuela has achieved the goal of progress set for that period, we realize that our development will not give us a firm foothold in world economic affairs until a clear-cut trade policy favourable to all developing peoples has been devised and implemented. It has been said that prosperity, like peace, is indivisible. Among the developing countries, this is an incontrovertible truth. Apparently, however, it has gained no currency in the industrialized countries' attitude.
31. The concept of free trade without reciprocity must be put into practice on a world scale as soon as possible; otherwise vertical trade flows will crystallize and develop in a way which would be far from beneficial to the developing countries, whose economies would become more and more dependent upon particular States. Similarly, the raw material exporting countries must obtain, within the framework of UNCTAD, more favourable conditions for tackling the problems created by the steady deterioration in commodity prices coupled with the constant price increases of the manufactures those same countries are importing in growing quantities.
32. Unless specific agreements within UNCTAD are forthcoming soon, the only alternative will be agreements, several examples of which already exist, among exporting countries.
33. My country is proud to state before this Assembly that it has at no time been stinting in its efforts to contribute to the achievement of international harmony. We shall continue so to act in the future, for we are convinced that well-being and prosperity will appear on man's horizon the day we decide genuinely to unite our efforts to achieve the essential objective, namely, the improvement of the standard of living of all mankind.

===== Session 23 - 1968 =====
136. On this occasion, the fifth time I have had the honour of addressing the General Assembly on behalf of Venezuela, I am gratified to be doing so under the Presidency of Mr. Arenales.

137. As a Latin American country, we share the pride in being guided in these deliberations by the representative of the sister Republic of Guatemala, and we have the added satisfaction that that country is represented by its Foreign Minister, Mr. Arenales, who, on account of his personality, his activities and his virtues, has won the admiration and esteem of all of us who have had the privilege of knowing him. We are sure that he will preside with wisdom and ability over the General Assembly in its consideration of
the important items on its agenda. In the fulfilment of that mission, the President can count on the determined co-operation of the delegation of Venezuela.

138. My delegation also wishes to record its appreciation of the work of the President at our previous session, Mr. Corneliu Manescu of Romania, who, with calmness and skill, led the debates which took place during a particularly difficult period of the General Assembly.

139. On behalf of the Government of Venezuela, I am pleased once again to congratulate the Secretary General, U Thant, for his perseverance and efficient work and for his efforts in seeking solutions to the conflicts which threaten world peace.

140. The multifarious problems confronting mankind are grave and call for urgent solutions. Unfortunately, we cannot say that peace has definitely been ensured or that all countries are upholding the purposes and principles of this Organization. However, we can hope from experience that reason and the law will prevail and that Governments will base their conduct on the principles of coexistence and co-operation within the international community.

141. There does indeed exist an international order that cannot be ignored by those who threaten world peace. This conviction reigns in the conscience of all the representatives here, and the principles underlying it are fully valid both within and outside the Organization. We feel that most countries share Venezuela’s concern at the perpetration of acts which constitute a breach of international legal order and are serious threats to world peace. We are especially concerned over violations of the principle of non-intervention, the formulation and defence of which may be counted among the most notable advances of our times. That principle is the key to the whole system of international law; only if it is strictly observed can we expect a balance between nations and a true expression of the sovereign equality of all States. For this reason, the Venezuelan Government continues to be gravely concerned over the acts committed by troops of Eastern Europe against the Czechoslovak nation. Undoubtedly, they constitute a flagrant violation of the principles of non-aggression and of the self-determination of peoples, both of which are expressly set forth in the Charter of the United Nations, and of the principle of non-intervention formulated in resolution 2131(XX) and unanimously adopted by the General Assembly at its twentieth session on the initiative of the Soviet Union. The Venezuelan Government, a firm champion of the principle of non-intervention, peaceful coexistence among nations and the right of self-determination, once again condemns that action.

142. The Assembly will once again have to consider the Middle East question, which, far from approaching a solution, is yearly growing worse, thus constituting a constant threat to world peace. Venezuela, which has friendly relations with all the peoples of that region, reiterates its support of United Nations efforts to make real progress towards a permanent and lasting solution to the conflict.

143. We recall that the year 1968 was proclaimed the “International Year for Human Rights” by the General Assembly [resolution 1961 (XVIII)], and that Member States undertook to make further efforts to reaffirm the dignity, worth and freedom of man, in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. For this reason, it is particularly painful to the human conscience that the monstrous policy of racial discrimination continues to be
applied in South Africa, Namibia and Southern Rhodesia.

144. No reasonable man can accept any arguments, open or implied, which seek to justify the oppression of one group of men by another, or the separation of groups because of the colour of their skin. Venezuelans find such arguments especially absurd, because our nation is a product of three human groups: the indigenous Americans, the Europeans and the Africans. We have progressed beyond the peaceful coexistence of different racial communities; among us there is no concept of racial collectivity. As a motive to unite or separate Venezuelans, the colour of a person’s skin is for us of as little importance as the colour of the eyes or the hair.

145. The warnings of racists about the danger of the mixture of races or, as they call it, miscegenation, have been clearly refuted by the Venezuelans, who have practised such a policy since their independence, with such good results that I can state with pride that, regardless of our colour, we Venezuelans have no race.

146. Viet-Nam and the situation prevailing there continue to be a cause of concern to the entire world. The lack of progress in the Paris talks increases that concern. Today, we reiterate our hope that the countries involved in that situation may be able to resolve it in such a way as to bring peace, after so many years of conflict, to the war-torn territory of Viet-Nam.

147. With great satisfaction the Government and people of Venezuela have noted some progress in the process of decolonization which this Organization has inspired and encouraged; I refer to the independence of Swaziland and the imminent independence of Equatorial Guinea. We are pleased to send our greetings and cordial felicitations to the peoples of those territories and to their leaders for their unswerving dedication to the cause of independence. For them, just as for those who are still struggling to gain their freedom, we would note, with Renan, that “suffering together unites more closely than joy, and that sorrows are worth more than triumphs since they impose duties and require joint efforts”.

148. The activities of this Organization and the positive attitude now adopted by the administering Powers have done much to guide these peoples towards the exercise of the right of self-determination, thus enabling them to share with us the grave and increasingly complex responsibilities of the international community.

149. At the same time, however, it is regrettable to note those colonial situations which persist even now in obstinate defiance of the United Nations; such situations are the results of the intransigence of certain colonial Powers and their rejection of General Assembly and Security Council resolutions outlining specific and effective measures for the restoration of the inalienable rights of peoples under colonial domination. Apparently, these Powers persist in upholding colonial structures which are out of date and which are being sustained only by legal fictions and racial discrimination — concepts unacceptable to civilization whose basic tenets are founded on the ideal of peace and justice for all freedom-loving nations and the equality of men in shaping their common destiny.

150. Venezuela trusts whole-heartedly that the efforts to achieve the freedom and independence of all territories still subjected to colonialism will be intensified.

151. On humanitarian grounds, I must now refer to something which has disturbed international public opinion and causes us the deepest concern: the consequences of the struggle taking place in Nigeria. Let us hope that a feeling of human solidarity will prevail over political differences and put an end to the suffering of the innocent victims of the conflict.

152. While Venezuela’s prime concern, in political affairs, is respect for the sovereign equality of all States regardless of their military might or geographical position, it believes that, in economic affairs also, justice must govern international relations. It is just as wrong for the great Powers to abuse their military or political strength in their relations with weaker nations as it is for the industrialized nations to abuse their economic might in dictating conditions of trade with the developing countries.

153. The unwillingness of the developed countries to change the prevailing system and make it fairer, or even to halt the decline of the under-developed world, was revealed dramatically at the second session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at New Delhi. Despite the joint action taken by the Group of Seventy-seven, most of the developed countries maintained their Opposition to all changes of any significance. The only really positive aspect of the New Delhi Conference was the demonstration of the common feeling and solidarity of the Third World. It was further proof that resolutions, recommendations and measures approved in international bodies are in themselves valueless unless they represent the will of those who have the power to carry them out.

154. Nor was the New Delhi Conference able to make any definite contribution towards the formulation of the global development strategy. Unless UNCTAD fulfils the important role allotted to it, the next United Nations Development Decade can hardly be expected to yield better results than the frankly unsatisfactory ones of the present Decade.

155. The reasons for the lack of success are clear. One of those which disturbs Venezuela most is the steady decline in the prices of our countries’ exports and the ever-growing restrictions on their access to world markets. Dr. Raul Leoni, President of the Republic of Venezuela, referring to the problems of international trade, said:

“The developing nations’ persistent campaign, at various meetings and conferences, has so far failed to produce a single significant result and the solemn declarations and formal promises have not been accompanied by the appropriate practical measures, or even by the required will, to translate them into reality. The repeated demands of the Latin American countries for measures to increase their commodity earnings appear today like an awful
nightmare”.

156. Furthermore, it is difficult for our countries to achieve, solely by means of their own resources, an adequate rate of development. Their low rate of capital formation must be boosted by an adequate flow of finance from abroad. It is therefore particularly disturbing to note that the volume of international assistance is tending to stagnate or even regress.

157. Another problem of increasing gravity is the ever-widening technological gap between the two groups of countries. Technological backwardness is at once both a cause and effect of economic and social backwardness. Modern technology cannot flourish where the people are poor and uneducated. Nevertheless, it is an essential requisite for the industrialization which would overcome ignorance and poverty. It is therefore urgent to create conditions for a transfer of technology to the countries of the Third World.

158. As long as we see no real change in this situation, or at least no real desire on the part of all countries for such a change, we cannot be optimistic about the prospects for the next Development Decade. We therefore feel that a more appropriate name; and one which would emphasize this need for effective collaboration between the developed and the developing countries, would be “Decade of Co-operation for Development”.

159. We nations of the Third World must continue in our united efforts to change the attitude of the developed countries. At the same time, we must take steps among ourselves to protect our interests by using all the means in our power to ensure that discussions and negotiations bear fruit. Venezuela, for its part, is playing an active role in initiatives designed to avoid any deterioration in the world market conditions for its main products.

160. By the same token, it is taking part in the efforts being made to achieve the integration of Latin America and hence a sound economic foundation for its industrialization and its participation, on competitive terms, in international trade. Our activities have not been limited to the Latin American Free Trade Association: within LAFTA, we have conducted talks on the possibilities of establishing closer sub-regional integration of the countries of the Andean Cordillera and, outside LAFTA, more recently, we have also been developing, through talks and agreements, our economic, social and cultural relations with neighbouring States of the Caribbean.

161. Furthermore, Venezuela feels that the development of nations cannot be measured only by indices of productivity. We must know how far national, regional and world development programmes are designed to bring about the actual betterment — material and spiritual — of man or of the masses. It is the task of the United Nations to ensure that present-day national and regional development plans contain programmes for education and training, health ad social security. The technology and awareness of past generations was such that they strove first to produce greater wealth and then to distribute it; the peoples of today, however, will brook no postponement of their legitimate sharing in the fruits of development. That is how we view our own national development, and we hope international development will follow the same course.

162. Venezuela believes in the United Nations, in its organs and specialized agencies, and, when it is called upon to fill positions in certain institutions, it does so, not for reasons of international prestige, but rather with a fervent desire to collaborate and give its firm support with a view to strengthening those institutions.

163. During the present year, the representative of my country, Dr. Manuel Pérez Guerrero, presided over the Economic and Social Council. This was a great honour for Venezuela, and we take this opportunity to thank the members of that body for the spirit of understanding which they showed during the meetings and which helped it to achieve positive results.

164. The time for noting and analysing the problems of economic and social development has now passed. We must now tackle and solve those problems; we must adopt practical and direct measures which will help the immense developing world to shake off the inertia which seems to be gripping it. The industrialized countries have a serious historic commitment towards that world in which poverty, sickness and ignorance still prevail.

165. That, Mr. President, was all that my delegation had wished to say at this time; however, the accusations made yesterday [1680th meeting] against my country by the representative of Guyana compel us to add a number of observations.

166. The representative of Guyana has himself recalled the existence of the 1966 Geneva Agreement between the United Kingdom and Guyana, on the one hand, and Venezuela, on the other, and has referred to the Mixed Commission established under that Agreement to consider all matters relating to the territorial dispute which exists between our countries. We may add that the Commission met last week for the tenth time at Georgetown. The Venezuelan delegation therefore feels that to bring up this matter in the United Nations is out of place, and our remarks are intended not to start a discussion on this topic, but to reject the unjustified accusations and put right the factual errors contained in the Guyanese statement. 

167. In the first place, he has repeated the absurd allegation that Venezuela “occupied” Ankoko Island. To occupy that territory would have been impossible for the simple reason that it has always been in Venezuela’s possession, and that not even the legal farce which the representative of Guyana termed the “Arbitral Award” denied Venezuela’s sovereignty over Ankoko Island.

168. Secondly, he has accused Venezuela of intervention in Guyana’s internal affairs and specifically accused our country of attempting to subvert the indigenous community of the disputed territory. Those accusations are entirely false and groundless. Any sympathy which the islanders may feel for Venezuela is certainly none of our doing. They can hardly avoid comparing the progressive and integrated society of Venezuela with the policy of racial hostility which the British colonialists have deliberately and systematically fostered in Guyana, as in all other places where they have held sway.

169. Thirdly, he has accused Venezuela of excluding Guyana from the Organization of American States and from the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America. Suffice it to say, in reply, that the conditions of admission to both organizations were unanimously laid down by the Member States.

170. Fourthly, he has accused Venezuela of economic aggression. Venezuela has merely pointed out that, when the territory which was snatched from Venezuela by the United Kingdom regains its sovereignty, it will not recognize any foreign concessions which may have been granted in regard to it by Guyana. We must make such an affirmation in order to avoid giving powerful international economic consortia interested in the territory any grounds for future claims against Venezuela based on spurious titles obtained from the Government of Guyana.

171. Fifthly, he has chosen to construe as an act of aggression the Decree of 9 July 1968 on matters relating to Venezuelan territorial waters. This Decree merely reserves the rights of Venezuela over that portion of Venezuelan territorial waters held by Guyana. That country cannot accuse Venezuela of interfering with the unjust possession exercised by Guyana over Venezuelan territory.

172. The representative of Guyana has stated that the Venezuelan claim is groundless and a symptom of Venezuela’s “expansionism”. At the same time, he recalls the existence of the 1966 Geneva Agreement — accepted by Guyana — which establishes the parties’ obligation to seek satisfactory solutions for the practical settlement of the dispute. In pursuance of that Agreement, Venezuela, through peaceful means and in good faith, is continuing its attempt to settle this problem which has been inherited from British imperialism. 

173. It is ironic and, above all, sad that Guyana, whose people suffered and continue to suffer so much from the consequences of the United Kingdom’s colonial practices, should come here today to defend, before the Assembly, the adoption of those same practices in order to steal from Venezuela.

174. The representative of Guyana says that Venezuela is claiming two-thirds of his country’s territory. That is false. It is the Government of Guyana which is clinging illegally to one-seventh of Venezuela territory — stolen from us by the United Kingdom which, at the time, in complicity with the then Government of the United States, sought to make that seizure final by means of a legal farce they called arbitration.

175. Finally, I turn to the accusations of expansionism and aggressive intention levelled at Venezuela by the representative of Guyana. Here, it may be observed that our record is unsullied, a fact to which we shall be proud to call upon our other neighbours to bear witness.

176. Such an indictment of a country which has an unbroken tradition of devotion to peace and respect for international law is so absurd that not even the Government of Guyana itself could believe it.

===== Session 24 - 1969 =====
74. Madam President, please accept our warmest and most
sincere congratulations on your election as President of the
General Assembly. It is a just recognition of your personal
qualities and of your long and distinguished career in the
United Nations. It is also a well-deserved tribute to
womanhood and motherhood, and to a continent which
played an important part in forming the people and
national character of Venezuela. We have already had
occasion to appreciate the intelligence, tact and firmness
with which you direct our discussions, thus ensuring that
the work of the session will be orderly and fruitful.

75. We should be failing to pay a well-deserved tribute if
at this time, we were not to recall your predecessor,
Mr. Emilio Arenales. Mr. Arenales afforded us an unforgettable
example of dignity and strength of spirit in the
way in which he directed the work of the past session while
afflicted with great physical suffering.

76. I have the honour to address the General Assembly for
the first time as the representative of the Government
presided over by Mr. Rafael Caldera who, in keeping with
the constitutional and democratic tradition of Venezuela,
has been entrusted by the people of Venezuela with the
difficult task of leading the country along the path of
progress. On his behalf, I reaffirm Venezuela’s support for
the United Nations and for the principles of the Charter
which provide a basis for its activities.

77. The Government of Venezuela is determined to
remain faithful to the principles on which international
peace and co-operation are based. We do not, however,
consider it sufficient to adopt a purely static approach,
since the problems facing the international community, far
from remaining static, are increasing in gravity and complexity
faster than means can be found to solve them. The
Venezuelan Government wishes to make a determined
effort to join in the concerted and dynamic action that the
times demand.

78. However, efforts do not always produce the desired
results unless they are carried out as part of a coherent plan
laying down the goals towards which they should be
directed. These goals are, in our view, international social
justice and universal well-being.

79. As we all know, the early stages of the industrial
revolution produced the most inhuman conditions of
poverty for large masses of the population within each
country. As the differences between the haves and the
have-nots became more accentuated, an event occurred
which was to have far-reaching consequences: the have-nots
became aware of their own poverty and rebelled against it.
Fatalistic resignation to subhuman living conditions gave
way to a belief in collective responsibility for the well-being
of every member of the community, a responsibility
directly proportional to the capacity and wealth of each
individual.

80. There thus emerged a new view of the ideal of justice,
namely, social justice, justice as a regulating principle
restoring the balance between the haves and the have-nots,
between the strong and the weak, between the rich and the
poor and between employers and workers. In its name a
fight was waged to counter the abuses of the powerful, to
change the concept of society and its structures. As it was
considered that those who have more should contribute
more, the weight of the tax burden began to fall on the
wealthy. As employers and workers, too, were not in the
same situation, social legislation to protect workers was
evolved in order to put an end to the domination of the
socially weak by the socially strong. But this is something
that is so well known that there is no need to dwell on it
further. This process took place within each nation, at
different times but along the same general lines. The poor
became aware of their own poverty.

81. Today it has taken on a new dimension: it has become
international in character. The under-privileged peoples of
the world have become aware of their state. They are
realizing the extent of their under-development, which
cannot be concealed by such euphemisms as “developing
countries” or “relatively less developed countries”.

82. The spread of literacy, the press, radio, cinema,
television, easier and increasing communication between
peoples, and the very attitude of the developed countries in
their relations with the developing countries have led the
developing countries to realize that there is a section of
mankind which is over-endowed. The resignation of former
years has given way to the desire to work for an end to this
unjust situation in international relations. And today,
nations, as individuals did in the past, look to international
social justice as an ideal to inspire and guide their activities.

83. At the national level, marked economic, social and
cultural inequalities give rise to tensions and disturbances of
various kinds, and, at the international level, make peace an
illusion.

84. The exploitation of man by man undoubtedly generates
violence. How then can the exploitation of one
country by another engender peace on earth? How, I also
ask, could we describe the exploitation of one country by
another as anything but a situation of domination and
subjection? How indeed can we describe the relations
between the developed nations — whatever banner they
fly — and the developing nations except in terms of domination
and subjection?

85. The policy of blocs and the concentration of world
power around two great Powers have caused serious defects
in international assistance.

86. Under one system, economic domination inevitably
leads to political and cultural penetration. Under another,
political and ideological domination also implies economic
control and exploitation. Both systems, though their
emphasis and methods differ, result in what can only be
called an objective situation of subjection.

87. Development financing is, in fact, subject to many
conditions. Disinterested donations are the exception. In
one case, the “beneficiary” country is a victim of the
developed country’s desire for profit and has to repay what
it has received with interest and to compromise its
economic freedom. In the other case, the so-called beneficiary
country is a victim of the developed country’s desire
for ideological penetration and sees its structures invaded
and its political freedom removed. The actual words used
convey the underlying ideas. Reference is made to “aid” to
the under-developed countries, thus apparently attributing
generosity to the donor. In point of fact, generally
speaking, the provision of resources either represents a
straightforward commercial transaction or pursues ideological
or political goals; in neither case does it warrant the
connotation of the word “aid“.

88. What is more, in the developed countries the tax
systems — whatever form they take — generally place the
burden of taxation on those who possess most. These
nations believe this is a logical system where their own
countries are concerned, and this is so, since it is in
accordance with social distributive justice. Why, I ask, is
not this same principle applied to international relations?
Why are there two weights and two measures? Is it not the
same social justice transposed to the level of relations
between countries? Why is a principle operative in national
economies not operative in the world economy? The result
would be radically different, since something which is an
obligation could scarcely be described as “aid”. The wealth
of the developed countries has its roots in the poverty of
the developing countries. Thus, on the international plane,
the developed countries have — in all justice — certain duties
towards the developing countries. It is therefore a matter
not of concessions, but of obligations.

89. This might seem somewhat exaggerated. Let us remember,
however, in this respect the serious problem of the
constant deterioration in terms of trade and its important
sole in the “vicious circle of poverty”.

90. In his Introduction to this year’s annual report, the
Secretary-General states that “development is the long slow
road to peace” [A/7601/Add.1, para. 84]. The distance we
have travelled along this road is frankly unsatisfactory, and
it will continue to be unsatisfactory so long as no effective
efforts are made by the more developed countries to
support the efforts of the United Nations. The praiseworthy
efforts of UNCTAD and its Secretary-General, our
distinguished compatriot Mr. Manuel Pérez Guerrero, can
achieve nothing concrete so long as the States that have the
resources, far from using them to promote a more
reasonable and just international economic order, continue
by their behaviour to aggravate the present unacceptable.
situation. The deterioration in the terms of trade, the
growing cost of financial resources and the increasingly
difficult access to technological advances are daily widening
the gap separating the developed countries — which are a
true international oligarchy — from the rest, which in increasingly
difficult situations are struggling to ensure
genuinely human conditions of life for their peoples.

91. I have one further observation to make. The lack of
any criterion of social justice in the policy of development
aid frequently has the effect of strengthening inequitable
structures in the developing countries.

92. Moreover, man’s landing on the moon opens up new
horizons for human existence. The earth is no longer the
only sphere of man’s activities. Man has reached outer
space, and thus gives a vital new dimension to life. This
fact, which has still not been sufficiently assimilated, sheds
a new light on the concept of “mankind”. As the earth
grows smaller and smaller, men feel closer and closer to
each other. It is easier to understand, or rather to feel, the
solidarity that is needed among nations.

93. It is obvious that participation in the international
community cannot be based on the selfish and negative idea
of the benefits to be derived from the political domination
and economic exploitation of other countries. This is so
obvious, that, as can clearly be seen, the peoples of the
developing countries feel the need to unite against an unjust
international order, just as the under-privileged within each
State feel the need to unite against those who are
responsible for their deprivation.

94. Thus there has emerged—although still in an imprecise
form — the idea of a universal common good that demands
the support of all the peoples of the world. International
structures must be adapted for the purpose of achieving this
universal common good, and to this end the mistaken and
harmful concept of selfish nationalism must be superseded
by a concept of sovereignty and patriotism based on
solidarity among nations and applied in the light of the
values of international social justice. Consequently, we
must move from an international order based on bilateral
agreements between Governments towards one founded on
multilateral institutions established by the peoples. We
must move from national autarchies to the creation of a
supra-national society through successive processes of integration.
In short, we must work towards an international
order aimed at the universal common good and based on
international social justice.

95. Having described the foundations which, in my
Government’s view, are indispensable for the attainment of
lasting and fruitful peace for the full development of man,
we wish to express our most fervent hope that violence will
be banished from the world. The most obvious form of
violence — war - still persists in Asia, Africa and the Middle
East in all its tragic manifestations: the dead and the
wounded, hunger, destruction, poverty and the shipwreck
of man’s dignity. We are shocked and deeply disturbed that
efforts to achieve peace have ended in failure.

96. But armed struggle is not the only form of violence.
Colonial oppression that prevents nations from choosing
their own destiny is also a form of violence. The historic
tradition of Venezuela, bequeathed by, the Liberator.
Simon Bolivar, compels my country to support all measures
designed to eliminate the detestable colonial system,
whatever form and characteristics it may assume.

97. There is another form of violence in our world which
it is our duty to combat, namely, degrading and cruel
racism. Racial persecution is a serious threat to world peace
and a burden on the conscience of every free man. The
blood of three races which runs intermingled in the veins of
the Venezuelan people makes us particularly sensitive to
this absurd form of hatred among men. When these
practices, instead of being combated by Governments, are
institutionalized by them and proclaimed as official policy,
they constitute an intolerable mockery of the very bases of
the international community.

98. To these forms of violence we should add one other:
religious discrimination. We had thought that it was
something that belonged to the past, but we see with
concern that it is re-emerging in various parts of the world
and that it, too, constitutes a threat to understanding
among men.

99. In this general debate we have refrained from explaining 
in detail our position on specific agenda items. Our
delegation will express its views on each item as it is
discussed. We should like, nevertheless, to take this opportunity
to make a few general comments about the Organization.

100. We are concerned at the loss of authority and
prestige suffered by the United Nations, which in our
opinion is still the international community’s best instrument 
for achieving peace and justice in the world. There are
complex reasons for this weakening of the United Nations,
which many speakers have described in the course of this
general debate: non-compliance with its resolutions by
certain Member States; the lack of a sense of realism on the
part of delegations that are more interested in adoption of
draft resolutions than in the actual possibilities of action by
the Organization; the unjustified refusal of other delegations 
to support specific measures for the implementation
of principles and standards generally accepted by the
international community; the excessive number of meetings, 
documents and words; the dispersal of efforts; the
limitations of the Charter, and so on. All these reasons have
undoubtedly affected the state of affairs, but in our view
the root of the problem is the lack of a general political will
to work within the framework of the United Nations and
actively to promote the principles and purposes of the Charter.

101. There is clearly a tendency for the great Powers to
leave the United Nations to one side in considering the
main international issues. We other Member States encourage 
this attitude, which is gradually undermining the
very foundations of the Organization, through inactivity
and our inability to work together and make our contribution 
to the study of those items.

102. While the policy of a balance of power among
nations, among the great Powers, was incapable of ensuring
peace in the past, the possibilities of creating a just
international order today on-the basis of that same system
are remote indeed. It might be argued that this balance of
power has prevented a world conflict. We cannot forget,
however, that we have been on the brink of the abyss on
more than one occasion. Moreover, the maintenance of this
precarious balance entails the investment of vast sums on
the acquisition of complex and costly systems of attack or
defence. In any event, the balance of power did not prevent
the armed conflicts that have broken out in various parts of
the world since the end of the Second World War.

103. A new international order must be based on
recognition of the unity and indivisibility of mankind’s
destiny and of the inherent dignity of human beings, and
should be aimed at the development of the whole man and
of all mankind.

104. In examining all these problems, we think of the
heavy burden borne by our Secretary-General, U Thant. We
know his devotion to the cause of peace, his spirituality and
his will to serve, all of which constitute a guarantee of
patient and fruitful action. We congratulate the Secretary-General 
on his positive efforts and we offer him our 
support and our co-operation.

105. Next year the United Nations will have been in
existence for a quarter of a century. That will be a
magnificent opportunity to make a clear and realistic
analysis of its structure and effectiveness and of the role
that it is destined to play in a rapidly changing world.

106. In this analysis we must obviously assess the real
results that have been achieved. But this in itself is not
enough. In a constructive spirit, we must ask ourselves
whether our peoples still believe in the United Nations as an
effective instrument for the maintenance of international
peace and for the promotion of the necessary economic and
social development.

107. Moreover, the post-war generation must receive our
special attention. Animated by praiseworthy concerns and
impelled by a tireless energy, this generation can and must
be a positive and decisive factor in contemporary history.
But we must likewise ask ourselves: will this generation
retain its faith in the United Nations? If we can ensure that
our most precious resource, youth, participates in the
activities of the United Nations, we should be taking a great
step forward towards the future realization of the great
hopes born at San Francisco.

===== Session 25 - 1970 =====
Mr. President, on behalf of my Government may I convey to you our sincerest congratulations on the honor which has been conferred upon you by your being elected President of this General Assembly. Your personal qualities, your experience and your important contribution to the study of the United Nations Charter assure us that we will enjoy effective and fruitful guidance of our work during the course of this session.
87.	I should also like to pay tribute to the admirable work accomplished at the past General Assembly session by your distinguished predecessor, Mrs. Angie Brooks-Randolph.
88.	In this general debate we shall refrain from stating our position in detail on all the specific items on the agenda. Our delegation will state its views on all these items when they come up for debate.
89.	Men, in their desire not to forget the past, have performed acts to mark great moments in history. So it is that we celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the United Nations at this session. There have been twenty-five years of efforts to maintain international peace and security, to promote friendship among peoples, to co-operate in the solution of the various problems before them and to serve as a center to help achieve these goals. During these twenty-five years man's weaknesses have at times led to the shipwreck of fine ideals, but at the same time heroic virtues and a feeling of human solidarity have asserted themselves on many occasions.
90.	As this long journey draws to a close it is only fitting that we pause and carry out a critical analysis of the results achieved. We must have a critical turn of mind as we endeavor to make the proper judgment. We believe that our primary goal can only be the one which led to the creation of this international Organization, namely, the maintenance of international peace and security.
91.	It is obvious that many positive results have been achieved by the United Nations in the economic, social, cultural, legal and health fields. However, we feel that it is necessary not to disregard the negative aspects of the situation confronting us today. We must concentrate on them if we wish to correct the errors which we have committed in the past. In our opinion the United Nations continues to be the best instrument of the international community in its search for peace and justice in the world. But let us have no illusions, the existing international order shows many serious shortcomings which must be squarely faced.
92.	It would be impossible to take up each and every one of the specific features of today's world. It is only feasible to take stock of the more relevant events which in our opinion determine the march of mankind at this moment of singular importance.
93.	There is a great gap between the principles pro-claimed as the basis of international relations and their concrete application. The important leaders of the major countries of the world assert in their speeches rules for international behavior which are admirable for their beauty and content. However, all too frequently they are mere theoretical expressions, for these rules have not been made a reality in relations among States.
94.	Equality among nations is, to be sure, enshrined in texts. In reality, however, the 'e is only token recognition reflected in a mere right to speak and vote in international organizations.
95.	International order as we know it is based on the preponderance of the major Powers, and peace is solely the result of a policy of balance of power among them. This fact is brought out very clearly in the tendency of the major Powers to disregard the United Nations when considering the principal international problems. The most important political issues are aired and in fact solved without the participation of the developing nations.
96.	There are very great economic and social differences dividing the peoples of the world. Statistics show that the absolute and relative difference between the industrial and backward States is growing every year; this imbalance grows in fact daily. Wealth and progress continue to exist solely in the same States.
97.	It might be thought that as a result of scientific and technological progress the under-developed countries could in fact develop, but this would be a mere illusion. Scientific and technological development will be, in the normal course of events, beyond the reach of the developing countries, or at least their development will not be such as to overcome their backwardness. No matter how one looks at it, the lack of three fundamental elements for development  capital, educational level and technology, which are indissolubly related creates a vicious circle of poverty.
98.	These economic and social differences lead to domination of the under-developed countries by the developed countries as a result of the so-called assistance they provide. We made this point in our statement in the general debate in this Assembly last year. We said:
"The policy of blocs and the division of world power between the two great Powers has introduced deep-rooted evils in international assistance.
"Under one system, economic domination of necessity leads to political and cultural penetration. Under the other system, political and ideological domination implies equally economic control and exploitation. Both systems result in terms of different emphasis and methods in what can only be described as an objective position of subjugation." [1779th meeting, paras. 85 and 86].
99.	The profit motive on the one hand and the desire for ideological penetration on the other have, in international systems, existed to the detriment of many countries which need the co-operation of the major countries of the world.
100.	Hunger continues to be a scourge for two thirds of mankind. In spite of all the efforts and programs being pursued hunger continues to prevail in enormous areas of the world. Thousands and thousands of men are still literally starving to death every day.
101.	This fact points to just one more injustice which divides the peoples of the world today into a club of wealthy nations, an exclusive club with closed doors, and poor nations.
102.	We have already spoken of an international order based on the balance of power between the various blocs. The maintenance of this balance, precarious at best, requires the investment of gigantic sums of money for the acquisition of attack and defense systems which are increasingly complex and costly. The possession of the atomic bomb has been the point of departure in a constant arms race designed to end the balance of terror by some decisive discovery or by establishing the kind of material superiority which Would have an unquestionable effect.
103.	With a very small percentage of the investments that are made for destruction, the face of the earth could indeed be changed. However, the struggle for control of the world makes it impossible for the competitors to act in everyone's best interests.
104.	Thus, at a time when man has made the most sensational discoveries, at the international level we must witness enormous efforts to achieve superiority in weaponry while at the same time more than two thirds of mankind remain victims of underdevelopment.
105.	We have seen how precarious the peace has been over the past twenty-five years. Armed conflicts have indeed not come to an end and the blood of the dead and the wounded has been shed in the remotest areas of the earth. We have grown accustomed to all this. We are not even so worried any more about living on the brink of disaster. And I say "the brink of disaster" because in a situation where there is a balance of power, events cannot always be controlled and indeed may take us unawares and lead us to a catastrophe.
106.	According to the ordinary approach to history, by war we mean a way of resolving differences among States when diplomatic action fails. But when mankind discovered the atomic bomb the feeling was that war would no longer exist due to the deterrent nature of nuclear weapons.
107.	But a new phenomenon has emerged: war in peace. This paradox has a name: a system of permanent subversion. No nation can escape this fact. Both the developed and undeveloped, all may be victims of this evil. Subversion may exist at any point of tension or antagonism, wherever it may exist.
108.	In addition to subversion carefully developed into a system, we find at the international level, the cult of violence. Let me define my terms very clearly. In ordinary language violence is often confused with force. But this is an error. Force is the body of all means and procedures used by law for the enforcement of law. On the other hand, violence signifies the illegal use of force meaning the indiscriminate use of force not in accordance with pre-established principles.
109.	A new fact about today's world then is this cult of violence; what it amounts to is the consecration of the use of indiscriminate force for whatever purposes are being pursued. Violence is an end in itself. Those who support this new religion of violence proclaim that they will not stop at any crime in order to put an end to injustice. They forget that violence can only lead to further acts of injustice, and if these acts are pursued nothing can be changed on the surface of the earth, for, qualitatively speaking, we would all be living at the same level of injustice.
110.	In this way the consequences of violence now strike individuals who had nothing to do with the drama being played out around them. As a corollary of fanaticism and divinely sponsored aggression, there has been a whole host of crimes of all kinds: kidnappings, assassinations, hijackings, attacks, and so forth. All these acts occur at the expense of innocent human beings, as a way of committing acts of violence against others who are thought to be guilty. In this way mankind has gone back to a time which we thought was permanently in the past. We have released instincts which lead to the explosion of passions, which are characterized by special interests or fanaticism.
111.	What we have said, of course, does not exclude the right of peoples to rebel against tyranny, colonialism, racism, or any other form of oppression. In this case, of course, it is the oppressors who practice violence; and the right to rebellion, legitimately exercised, represents the people's striving to restore juridical order.
112.	Together with all these things, there is a growing process of lowering of Individuality and the arrival of the mass phenomenon. Progressive depersonalization is taking place. There is a loss of a feeling of the human person understood as a rational free being, which is now being replaced by that of the interchangeable man, the individual in the mass.
113.	Critical judgment has been replaced by the emotional reaction, and rational life by the life of feeling. In the disappearance of the critical judgment, man has lost his true status as a human being and his fundamental characteristic reason. The man of today remains in this way at the mercy of those who are able systematically to use the levers of the sub-conscience and of instinct.
114.	This picture of the growing advent of mass phenomena is completed with a picture of very considerable mental confusion. Societies see collapsing around them, apparently or really, the scale of values which support them. The phenomenon affects mankind as a whole. There is no country in the world which has not seen challenged all the principles on which we have lived so far. This confusion about values applies to the international sphere too. Norms which have governed relations between peoples since time immemorial are now at a critical stage. It is not a question of violation of these norms. Violations or infractions of rules have always existed in mankind. The infraction, to some extent, ratified the true nature of the norm. But this is something different. What we are talking about is a contempt for rules, a disregard for their ethical content. An obvious example can be found in the acts of kidnapping and aerial hijacking which have occurred in recent months.
115.	This is a disturbing picture. We believe that it affects the historical reality that we are experiencing now. It dispels all of our illusions and compels us to act. It also makes it possible to understand that fate condemns us if we do not act.
116.	But, also, we must ask ourselves: why have so many efforts to produce peace given such results? Why have we confused the avoidance of war with the quest for peace? To understand this, the best way to proceed is to examine the manner in which the United Nations came into existence.
117.	The United Nations Charter has an original sin. The United Nations was born of a war and tried to end war in general. The victorious parties in the last world war imposed their peace. However, there is no such thing as an imposed peace. Peace, to be authentic, has to be shared.
118.	The United Nations, born of the historic trauma of war has not been able to go beyond that first anxiety of preserving men from the scourge of war. In this respect we could go so far as to say that all that has really been avoided is world war. As such, the phenomenon of war has been a permanent reality even though it has been confined to certain different regions of the earth.
119.	But peace cannot simply be reduced to a mere absence of wars. The absence of armed conflict is only the negative aspect of peace, not its true essence. This leads us, then, to ask ourselves what are the conditions necessary for real peace among nations.
120.	The first condition is real equality among national communities. For this purpose a radical change is required, a change which will involve the thoroughgoing alteration of existing structures.
121.	No country on earth, however powerful or developed, has more dignity than any other. Each people has its own personality and specific ways of living that deserve respect. We must accept ourselves as we are, with both our good qualities and our short-comings.
122.	Frank and sincere dialog must start between nations as the best way to bring about mutual under-standing. Reciprocal respect between national communities, which is a prime condition for peace, excludes relations based on domination and subjection between developed and developing countries, and even also among the industrialized States themselves. What is needed is real participation, more social and more democratic, by the community of peoples. Moreover, in order to lie authentic, peace must be shared in both the obligations and rights it involves. In this way, also, international authority will not be regarded as an instrument for world domination. Equality and dignity among States lastly presupposes the elimination of racism as a source of discrimination between States.
123.	The second condition for the establishment of peace among nations is the ordering of relations between peoples along the lines of international social justice.
124.	At this point I would echo the words of my Head of State, Dr Rafael Caldera:
"The formula for bringing about happy relation-ships which will take the form of friendship and inter-national co-operation cannot be a fierce struggle to buy more cheaply for ourselves and to sell ourselves at a higher price. The idea that more trade will make aid less necessary is true but only so long as trade becomes fairer and justice for the peoples of the developing countries takes the form of a greater chance to bring about the urgent changes they need. I believe in international social justice. As Aristotle saw it, justice demands that one should give everybody that which is his. As his thought has been developed in Christian philosophy, that which is his as a concept does not apply merely to individual men but also to society for the common good. There is no difficulty at all in applying this concept to the international community.
"Just as society at the national level has a right to impose various relationships upon its members, so the international community requires of the various peoples participation in accordance with their capacity so that everybody may live a human life. The obligations and rights of the various peoples have to be gauged, therefore, according to the capacity and needs of each people, in order to make peace, harmony and progress feasible so that we shall all advance in real friendship."
125.	Therefore, if we believe that the development of every man and all men is the new name for peace this implies a fundamental shift in the principles which lie behind the present international order. Otherwise our aid programs will establish new forms of colonialism and will reinforce existing injustices, and the gap between the rich and poor countries will widen constantly.
126.	At this point in man's evolution it is impossible to admit that a developed country can impose upon an undeveloped country to which it provides "aid" a counterpart equal to usually it is greater than the "value" of the "service" provided. Under such conditions how will it ever be possible to emerge from under-development? When we spoke before this august Assembly last year we quite rightly said that "the wealth of the developed countries sinks its roots in the poverty of the developing nations" [1779th meeting, para. 88].
127.	This means that it is necessary for relations between nations to become ordered in accordance with the principles of international social justice, which leads me to quote again from the words of President Caldera:
"... if we believe that there is an international community, and if we truly maintain that all men, all of us, are part of a great society and that this great society has the right to exist and prosper, it is indispensable that on its behalf appropriate responsibilities and burdens, functions corresponding to the possibilities, strength, level of development and wealth of certain peoples vis-a-vis others should be required of peoples".
128.	The third condition for peace is the establishment of active solidarity which will truly bind the different peoples of the world together. This solidarity will be dynamic only to the extent that it is directed towards the universal common good, and only if it is based on international social justice.
129.	The profound social, political, economic, cultural, scientific and technological changes that have taken place have altered human relations within the various societies, both national and international. The earth is shrinking, and we men are drawn closer to each other. National communities have become aware of their individuality. It is all the time being more clearly understood how the fate of each is bound up with the fate of the rest. Also, admittedly in a confused form but quite visibly, there is emerging the idea of a universal common good over and above the desires of each nation, towards which the interests of mankind should be directed. The solidarity of mankind is no longer a subject for discussion.
130.	But, the barriers to international solidarity must be surmounted. These are two: first, there is the proliferation of overblown nationalism. This nationalism exalts beyond all measure national egoism and creates obstacles to a balanced co-ordination among peoples. Second, there are ideological hatreds which lead to divisions among nations and engender divisive fanatical attitudes which are quite negative and are a rich fertilizer for the appearance and flourishing nature of violence as a system. While there is one part of mankind which considers that the economic and social way of life of another part of mankind is an evil to be destroyed, it will obviously be difficult for real solidarity to prevail; we cannot go beyond mere tolerated coexistence, which is a kind of marking time, or holding war at bay, as it were, simply holding off the destruction of one party by another. Coexistence in this way will remain simply a stage in the game of the unstable balance between blocs.
131.	If we want to achieve a shared and non-imposed peace, active solidarity between nations will compel us to embark upon successive processes of integration to get from the sphere of national autarchy towards the creation of a supernational society. This is what we might call the stage of pluralist integration, a more appropriate method than the system of defensive and offensive alliances which is characteristic of bloc politics.
132.	Active solidarity among nations requires of us the elimination of the machinery of political-economic subjection imposed de facto by the developed countries of East and West, to the detriment of the underdeveloped countries.
133.	Active solidarity among nations, lastly, imposes on us an obligation to impart a new ideological concept to the new civilization, to the new international order which is already knocking impatiently at our doors. This new ideology must start from the historic reality that we are living in now and the profound aspirations of peoples. It will be a social and revolutionary humanism founded on the recognition of the unity and indivisibility of the fate of mankind and of the eminent dignity of the human person. Its goal will be the development of the whole man and of all men. It will regard as a fundamental right of each national community active participation in the decisions which concern it in the international order. It will at all times be directed towards the promotion of the universal common good, inspired by an ideal of social international justice.
134.	A durable and lasting peace is to be the goal that it will try to achieve. It will not be an imposed peace, but a voluntary peace, a peace sought for, a peace accepted and shared.
135.	Is this Utopian? I put it to you whether it is not more Utopian to continue on the road that we are on now and to believe that it will take us towards peace and international security.
136.	In examining all these problems we must necessarily think of the heavy burden which our Secretary- General, U Thant, bears on his shoulders.
137.	Our children, the men of tomorrow, will require of us categorically at this twenty-fifth anniversary session of the United Nations that we construct a human and just international order in which peace and freedom of spirit shall reign in the hearts of men. Let us all unite our efforts, so as not to disappoint them.


===== Session 26 - 1971 =====
1.	 Mr. President, on behalf of my Government, I wish to convey to you our most sincere congratulations upon the special distinction conferred on you by the Assembly in electing you its President for its twenty-sixth session. We are greatly pleased with this election because of the special ties which the defense of the legitimate rights and interests of the developing countries has forged between our two countries. Your election is a token of appreciation of your contribution to the cause of the independence of your country and your long and distinguished career in the service of Indonesia and in defense of the lofty ideals of the international community. It is, likewise, a tribute to the age-old continent, the cradle of civilizations, to which your country belongs.
2.	We should also like to pay a tribute of thanks to your distinguished predecessor, Mr. Edward Hambro, who conducted the activities of the last session of this Assembly with skill, prudence and balance.
3.	We are especially happy, on this occasion, to extend a cordial greeting to the new Member States of the Organization: Bahrain, Bhutan and Qatar.
4.	In this general debate, we shall refrain from giving our position in detail in relation to specific agenda items. Our delegation will give its views thereon in the relevant debates.
5.	I should like, instead, to turn my attention, in this unique forum of the nations of the world, to fundamental principles that my Government regards as essential for the consolidation and progress of international order.
6.	Technological advances have brought profound changes to means of social communication and transportation in general. As distances grow shorter and as relations among people are made easier, our earth, has become smaller and we who inhabit it feel closer to one another. When man reached the moon, a new, vital dimension was created: the space age. More than ever we are aware' of the unity and interdependence of the peoples of the world, that we are all members of the human race and that the whole earth is our great home. Can international borders perchance be seen from outer space?
7.	In addition, this revolution in time and space offered to us by technology has created on our earthly planet a new situation: a similarity in the way of life. We are all beginning to have similar problems, similar dwellings, common concerns, identical preoccupations, similar customs. Thus, on the one hand, national communities are becoming aware of their own individuality, while, on the other hand, we are coming to realize how the fate of one affects the fate of all.
8.	Gradually, in a somewhat confused though perfectly perceptible manner, we note that States that were regarded yesterday as a whole are today no more than parts of a- greater whole: our earth. Thus there emerges a new concept: that of mankind. We think of mankind as all the peoples of the world and, thus conceived, mankind appears to us as a world-wide society which encompasses us all and which is in opposition to individual societies or States, having their own lives, it is true, but dependent on the development of that greater society.
9.	We understand that society-both national and international-seeks not only to satisfy certain needs but rather to organize collective life in order that it may lead to the development of mankind as a whole. This modern concept of development has placed co-operation, both at the national and international levels, in a completely new perspective.
10.	The collective task is the development of civilization in other words, of man and of all men; of each people and of all peoples. There is need, therefore, for a social discipline capable of co-ordinating the activities of all for the benefit of ail. Today we can therefore speak, even in strictly scientific terms, of a universal duty to co-operate devolving upon all individuals and all communities. We, in fact, are here on earth to carry out together a common task: the development of mankind.
A/PV.1944
11.	The harmonious and human development of a civilization goes far beyond divisions within and between States. Art, science, philosophy and literature are today, more than ever before, the fruits of our collective work, it is thus that, over and above the particular characteristics of each nation, perhaps still not clearly defined but quite perceptible nonetheless, there progressively emerges the concept of the Universal Common Good towards which the interests of all peoples on earth should be directed.
12.	In my earlier interventions in this same Assembly on relations between peoples, international order and peace, 1 emphasized the fact that we should seek to achieve an international order inspired by International Social Justice and oriented towards the Universal Common Good. I had occasion to refer only to International Social Justice. Today I should like to speak about the Universal Common Good.
13.	Man does not stand alone. Society guarantees him a full life and his right to seek perfection. He has obligations towards the community where he lives. Therefore man must devote his endeavors to collective tasks, to the common good, that is to say, the good of all individuals in other words the good of individuals taken as a whole. Society constitutes a whole, because it unifies the action of its members for the benefit of all. It is thus that it has been possible to define the common good as the combination of all social conditions enabling the human person fully to develop all his faculties and perfect himself individually and socially. This is the concept of the common good taken from the point of view of a State.
14.	However, States are not alone, nor are they isolated in the concert of nations. Health, economy, agriculture, science, the arts, in short all man's activities in the contemporary world, are intimately dependent on the activities of other men and other peoples. Thus, Chen, as it does internally where each State seeks the realization of the common good of all its citizens, in the universal society of nations there is also need for a Universal Common Good wliich is the objective and raison d'etre of international authority and of the action of each of the States making up mankind.
15.	That Universal Common Good requires a contribution from all peoples on earth. Our international structures must be adapted to the realization of the Universal Common Good. That adaptation requires that we replace the erroneous and harmful concept of national egotism with the idea of sovereignty and patriotism prompted by solidarity between peoples in the light of the current values in International Social Justice.
16.	Thus from an international order based on bilateral agreements between Governments we must turn to another where, through  unilateral agreements, it may be possible to have institutions created by peoples.
17.	From the sphere of national autarchy we must move towards the creation of a supranational society, through successive stages of integration.
18.	We stated last year in this Assembly:
"The third condition for peace is the establishment of active solidarity which will truly bind the different peoples of the world together. This solidarity will be dynamic only to the extent that it is directed towards the universal common good, and only if it is based on international social justice." [184ist meeting, para. 128.]
19.	In effect, the Universal Common Good demands and requires active solidarity among nations. Mere coexistence, where perhaps the disintegration of others is expected or perhaps deliberately encouraged in a struggle for world predominance and triumph, is not enough. Far from it, the common good demands that we pass from coexistence to living together, We must turn from a system of relations, whatever they may be-whether of domination or exploitation or use of one State by another-to relations based on profound respect for the dignity of each State, while creating conditions for the liberation of everyone.
20.	The Universal Common Good requires a system of organized co-operation at all levels and in all sectors. In other words, it is necessary to pass from a system of international disintegration, where there is no harmony or over-all goals in the world, to a system of international integration, where we work with responsibility and a full awareness of what we are trying to do,
21.	The contents of the Universal Common Good are to be inspired by International Social Justice, in whose name we have the right to demand burdens and responsibilities that are in keeping with the possibilities, the power, the degree of development or wealth of some peoples in comparison with others.
22.	Thus we are faced with a logical development. Peace has a new name, and that name is development. International order cannot exist without harmonious, just and balanced development among nations, and this is only possible if it is oriented towards the Universal Common Good.
23.	The achievement of that Universal Common Good, as we have said, calls for the co-operation of all peoples on earth. Th<3 principle of the universality of the United Nations lies, in fact, in that same perspective. We are convinced that our Organization will fulfill more efficiently its lofty purposes to the extent that we can ensure the participation of the largest possible number of countries in the world,
24.	With this conviction, the President of the Republic of Venezuela on 4 March 1971, at his weekly press conference, stated the following:
"There is no doubt that the United Nations, in order to be more effective must, if possible, obtain the representation of the whole Universe. A country so powerful and highly populated, so important in many respects, as continental China should undoubtedly play a role in the world forum that the United Nations represents. In this connexion, we shall raise no obstacle, and we sincerely hope that some of the problems connected with the entry of that country will be solved. For instance, we maintain diplomatic relations with the Republic of China, whose Government is in Formosa, and that country's representation should not be scorned by us. We sincerely hope that this problem will be considered and analyzed in a truly suitable and satisfactory manner. I believe, moreover, that this question should be settled in a positive manner and in the not-too-distant future."
25.	These statements by President Caldera will guide the attitude of the Venezuelan delegation in the very difficult debate that will take place on this item-and I say a difficult debate because this problem is highly complex. We must endeavor to reconcile divergences of view through an open and forthright dialog in order to arrive at a formula that will allow for the full participation of continental China without the expulsion of the Republic of China,
26.	Mr. President, within each State the Common Good presupposes respect for the fundamental rights of the individual. Similarly, the Universal Common Good implies and demands respect for and recognition of the rights and the fundamental personality of different human communities. Moreover, just as each individual, by reason of the very demands of the Common Good, should be the architect of his own destiny, each State must be allowed to carry out its historic mission and to be primarily responsible for its economic and social development.
27.	That Universal Common Good calls for the redistribution among peoples of the wealth that has been unjustly accumulated by a few countries which we have come to call the developed countries. From that need for redistribution flow several conclusions or corollaries.
28.	It is not compatible with the concept of the Universal Common Good to sacrifice some peoples for the sake of one's own development. In time past the world has seen ritualistic cannibalism which was carried out at the individual level: one man was sacrificed. Today, it is fair to speak of social cannibalism, between nations and peoples. Under the cloak of technological development or "economic assistance", human communities and peoples are swallowed up. In fact, in order that some may develop, the very raison d'etre of the developing countries is taken away from them: their lawful right to forge their own destinies.
29.	The introduction of a subtle neocolonialism is incompatible with the idea of the Universal Common Good. Apart from unilateral benefits derived from primary commodities, in the interests of better technological conditions, the use and exclusive development of new resources such as those of the sea and the atom and outer space are sought by some.
30.	Nor is the system of foreign investments in the developing countries compatible with the Universal Common Good, when such investments are not oriented towards the development of those countries. Foreign investments that are made only for the sake of gain and one's own benefit are not in keeping with the concept of the Universal Common Good; quite to the contrary, they are a denial of that Common Good since they stem only from egotistical interests that have no social function.
31.	In a recent document a very important religious figure in the contemporary world stated:
"Under the impulse of new production systems, national frontiers are coming down and we see new economic powers emerging multinational enterprises which, because of the concentration and flexibility of their means, can carry out autonomous strategies to a very large degree independently of national political powers and, consequently, without control from the point of view of the common good. By extending their activities these private organizations may lead to a new abusive form of economic domination in the social, cultural and even political fields."
32.	Neither can we reconcile with the Universal Common Good the struggle for predominance by blocs, their arms race and the expenditures involved in maintaining the balance of power. Those sizable investments are in essence the clearest demonstration of how international relations take precedence over the Universal Common Good.
33.	In the name of the Universal Common Good we must question the pattern of development of today's industrialized nations. That pattern has led to the division of peoples on earth between the haves-an exclusive closed club-and the have-nots. But this is not in keeping with the concept of the Universal Common Good. To continue on that line is to march towards suicide because that would increase the differences among nations and peoples. This cannot be the fate which history has reserved for mankind.
34.	The Universal Common Good presupposes, moreover, a system of international distribution of production. In other words, it is necessary for all countries members of the community of nations to become part of a real and effective universal economic system encompassing all stages of economic activity. This necessarily implies the formulation of a global integral policy of world economy oriented towards the development of mankind-the Universal Common Good-and not towards the development of a small, group of privileged countries.
35.	In this connexion we must also point out that the Universal Common Good calls imperatively for the establishment of an international monetary system. But such a system cannot be effective without the genuine cooperation of all the countries concerned.
36.	We note with fear that the so-called Group of Ten seeks to assume and maintain the privilege of being the only ones in charge of the operation, alteration and reform of the monetary system. Once again, the developing countries have not been allowed a say in the decisions which so seriously affect them.
37.	In international forums the risks involved in the monetary system have been pointed out consistently but the absurd struggle to maintain an untenable national prestige prevented the adoption of realistic decisions with the participation of all nations.
38.	Measures adopted unilaterally, and contrary to the Universal Common Good, today seriously endanger the less developed countries.
39.	In this great forum, it is fitting for Venezuela to reiterate an earnest appeal to the conscience of the developed countries made a few days ago in international meetings held in Geneva and Panama.
40.	It is incompatible with the ideal of a Universal Common Good for a State to seek to set itself up as the sole possessor of truth and the monopolizer of the meaning of history, and it is even more incompatible when that State tries to Impose Its brand (if the truth with violence, People must be persuaded to accept the truth, not forced to accept It. No nation -unless it is willing to be held in contempt by others with regard Itself m the sob possessor of truth. Truth is to be found hi 'he authenticity, hi the nobility of peoples and Individuals.
41 The political State is not in itself an absolute, Its general mission Is that of being the nucleus and driving tee behind the development and the progress of communities and the human Institutions it encompasses, If due to the moral corruption of power a State assumes the iniquitous right of dealing on the destinies of other peoples as its political oligarchy sees lit, that State violates the Universal Common Good, There exist peoples that are prisoners of their Governments, In such eases their moral right to determine their own destinies Is usurped by their Governments,
42* The Universal Common Good must not be only a set of material profits and benefits, It Is also and fundamentally a multidimensional balance between the human person, societies and nations, and other human communities and nature in general, That Universal Common Good is and must be material, Intellectual and moral to allow the development of the material, intellectual and moral potential of all peoples, All this presupposes a keen awareness of those realities on the part of the developing countries,
43* It is quite obvious that participation in the international community cannot be based on the selfish and negative idea of benefiting from political or ideological domination or economic exploitation of other peoples.
44.	And yet such a state of affairs cannot be removed unless the developing countries are able to set aside their partisan national egotism and unite in order to deal with an unjust international order,
45.	Perhaps members think this is Utopian. This same question was asked last year from this very rostrum, Is it, however, not more illusory to continue along the path on which we are embarked at present? Is it, perchance, the way to the development of peoples and peace among nations?
46.	In making these final remarks I cannot fail to invoke the figure of our Secretary-General, UThant. For many years, in the performance of his functions, U Thant has devoted himself to the defense of the great moral principles that should guide relations among peoples. He, too, believes that only by pursuing great ideals will it be possible for mankind to realize its aspirations for peace and justice.
47.	History teaches us that only human actions inspired by ethical principles have lasting value. We must therefore defend them in the international arena with the persuasive power of truth if we are to free ourselves from the coercive power of violence.





===== Session 27 - 1972 =====
Mr. President, on behalf of my Government, I wish to express to you my sincere congratulations upon your election. It is a well-deserved tribute to your country, a land of age-old culture that has always been present at the crossroads of history, and, above all, a country that has always been a cradle of heroic men. It is, moreover, a proper recognition of your great merits as a highly capable and dedicated public figure.
108.	May we on this occasion pay a cordial tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Adam Malik, who had the honor to preside over the General Assembly at the last session.
109.	We could not at this time fail to remember our unforgettable friend UThant, or to pay him our most heartfelt tribute for his untiring and distinguished endeavors. His outstanding qualities have left an indelible impression on the minds of all those of us who were privileged to know him, and the pleasant memory of his kind personality.
110.	I should like especially to offer our warmest congratulations to our present Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim. His distinguished career as an enlightened and dedicated man, committed to the loftiest ideals, undoubtedly ensure a promising future for the United Nations.
111.	In this general debate we shall refrain from giving our detailed position on the specific items in the agenda. My delegation will put forward the views of my Government in the relevant debates.
112.	Never have men felt so close to one another as today. Many factors have contributed to this phenomenon: distance is no longer the obstacle it once was; we have the means to travel with incredible speed from one part of the earth to another. The revolution in transport has been followed by a revolution in the means of social communication. Thus, in our time, it is possible for men to contact each other at any point or in any region of the world, almost immediately.
113.	The impressive growth of the world's population has become a further element of change. Because of the population explosion or to be more precise the demographic revolution the earth is becoming increasingly smaller for an ever-larger population. With the ever-faster migration from the rural to the urban areas, we witness the emergence of metropolis and megalopolis, gigantic cities whose inhabitants live in overcrowded conditions.
114.	Man's landing on the moon has enabled us to reach a new dimension: that of space. Our earth is almost beginning to look like an enormous spaceship. As we stated last year in this Assembly:
"Thus there emerges a new concept: that of mankind. We think of mankind as all the peoples of the world and, thus conceived, mankind appears to us as a world-wide society which encompasses us all and which is in opposition to individual societies or States, having their own lives, it is true, but dependent on the development of that greater society." [1944th meeting, para. 8.]
115.	At the same time, the technological revolution, with the profound changes it has introduced in all the material instruments of human life, has generated a growing process of mass phenomena. This is a continuing social process of progressive depersonalization. The human person-man, as a being endowed with reason and liberty is replaced by mass man. In that mass man, primitive reactions prevail over rational life. He becomes the easy victim of manipulation processes; that is to say, he is at the mercy of those who know how to handle the media of social communication and the techniques of psychology so as to influence man's fundamental attitudes.
116.	The consequences of these mass phenomena are far-reaching and deep-seated. Man dehumanized, one of the mass, has abdicated his fundamental condition as a human being, namely, the predominance of reason. Critical judgment has been replaced by emotional reaction, rational life by emotional life.
117.	Thus it is that dehumanized man can easily become the plaything of the most diverse pressure groups. He has become fertile soil for the emergence of every kind of hatred and rancor, for all sorts of sectarian positions, however inconceivable, and for every kind of act, however brutal. Finally, this depersonalized, mass man, is capable of any sacrifice for the sake of myths imposed on him and to which he clings emotionally of every kind of violence, unable as he is to grasp the full significance of his acts.
118.	Paradoxically and just as man is beginning to feel the unity and solidarity of mankind, just as he is feeling closer than ever to all men, we witness what would appear to be the collapse of all the values on which his conduct and behavior were based. This phenomenon affects the whole of mankind, and there is no country on earth where all the principles that have governed man's, life hitherto are not questioned. There is thus born an attitude of rebellion against every rule and of challenge to all authority.
119.	Within that society of the masses, a very important role is played by all the public opinion manipulation procedures, for, through them, it is possible to distort reality to the extent of leaving man as if he were suspended in a vacuum. In point of fact, truth is intermingled with error to the extent that it is not possible to discern where the truth is. On the other hand, error is clothed as truth to the point that it is no longer possible to discover where the error lies. Such a situation engenders a reversal of values and the most serious mental confusion, creating a fertile ground for the proliferation of every kind of extremism and sectarianism.
120.	Viewed from this angle, the world today appears to be compressed between two opposite movements: one, which accumulates motives for division and violence, the other which reveals the possibility of a unity which, for the first time, is truly expanding to embrace the whole of the human race.
121.	Indeed, on the one hand, never as in our time have more efforts been deployed to achieve solidarity and understanding among men and peoples. The strongest proof of this fact is the constant increase in the large number of international organizations and activities oriented to serve mankind.
122.	Yet, on the other hand, never before, perhaps, has the world been so submerged in an atmosphere of violence as it is today. But at this point it becomes necessary to define our terms. In this connexion, in my intervention before this Assembly at the twenty-fifth session I stated that:
• "In ordinary language violence is often confused with force. But this is an error. Force is the body of all means and procedures" of every kind: physical, psychological, economic, and so on" used by law for the enforcement of law. On the other hand, violence signifies the illegal use of force meaning the indiscriminate use of force not in accordance with pre-established principles." [1841st meeting, para. 108. ]
123.	The new development in the contemporary world is the deification of violence. It is paid almost religious reverence. We are faced with an existentialist attitude and, consequently, with a new set of values. The ends make the means good. A violent act becomes good if it permits the achievement of the objectives pursued. The followers of the new religion of violence maintain and proclaim that they will stop at no crime to put an end to injustice. They forget that if an unjust act and because unjust therefore violent is answered with a violent act-and because violent therefore unjust we shall have changed nothing on earth since qualitatively we shall be on exactly the same plane of injustice.
124.	It is a complex social reality, an effect with multiple causes and the cause of multiple effects. It involves many diverse dynamic factors. Let us analyze briefly the most conspicuous ones.
125.	A very small number of States the so-called developed States control the greater part of the wealth and the scientific and technological knowledge of the world. On the other hand, the nations of the developing world see that with each year that passes the existing imbalance between them and the industrialized countries grows wider.
126.	Profound social and economic differences wealth and near-poverty, opulence and misery, a vast number of inadmissible contrasts in a human society separate the various national groups within States, particularly in the developing countries.
127.	At the international level, the centers of power and decision are concentrated in a few nations. Whether in the balance of blocs or through multi-polarization, various methods of subjection are erected to the benefit of the great Powers.
128.	Quite often the financing of development gives rise to situations of economic and political subjection which moreover and not infrequently strengthen the unfair structures of the developing countries. A European Minister in this connexion commented, in rather malicious terms: "Assistance for development is what the poor people in the rich countries give the rich people in the poor countries".
129.	The desire of States for power and their ambition to dominate engenders the various forms of economic and ideological imperialism. On the other hand, situations of oppression and tyranny at the national and international levels are proliferating.
130.	New ideological trends are assuming radical positions and acquire messianic and, to a certain extent, apocalyptic features. Fanatically determined to destroy the existing structures by any means, they resort to systematized violence in order to compound their psychological effect through terror. Thus, systems of permanent subversion are created; conflicts of every kind become more acute, and the most refined means of psychological action are used to submit the will.
131.	There is an atmosphere of ethical pollution that is gradually extending to all nations. This process is facilitated by the disintegration of the values by which mankind has so far lived. As a result, several phenomena of social disorder emerge, such as an alarming increase in drug traffic, an increase in crime and the release of primary instincts, phenomena which in turn become polluting agents.
132.	The progress achieved in the means of social communication also contributes to the climate of violence. The "cultural patterns" they impose surreptitiously through their productions not infrequently contain an exaltation of the violent and therefore of violence. Similarly, the technological advances made in the means of social communication, place at the disposal of States possessing them a hitherto unknown power of cultural control over other States. Today, a nation may well lose its personality as the victim of a cultural invasion which has all the appearances of being a peaceful act but which is none the less fraught with psychological murders.
133.	On the other hand, morally speaking, technological progress per se is neither good nor bad. It all depends on the use men make of it. For that reason, technological progress can and in fact does provide its refinements to the various manifestations of violence.
134.	The crisis in religious values also has an unfavorable effect, especially in those countries whose religions actively advocate love of one's neighbor and solidarity among men. The eclipse of such values, though momentary, has a negative effect as the appeal to the ever-implicit ethical elevation of man is obscured.
135.	Racial discrimination is still, in today's world, an uninterrupted source of violent conflicts. Man's rejection of man for reasons of race gives rise to unending hatred, often aggravated by various other factors that are intermixed with it.
136.	This brief analysis we have outlined shows the complexity of the phenomenon of violence. One of its specific manifestations-perhaps the one that has the greatest impact is terrorism. Terrorism is one of the items on the agenda of the current session. I therefore wish to refer to it specifically.
137.	For all the aforesaid reasons, I believe that terrorism cannot be considered in isolation; rather it must be considered within the overall context in which it is engendered. It is that context that we have endeavored to summarize.
138.	We understand the desire to submit terrorist activities having international repercussions to juridical regulation of universal character. However, while placing ourselves in the field of law, we cannot lose sight of the principles that should inspire any juridical regulation.
139.	In our statement at the third special session of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States on 26 January 1971, we said in this connexion that law arose to encompass the life from which it proceeded and moved between the desirable and the feasible. We said in simple terms like a great Belgian jurist, Professor Jean Dabin, that on the legal plane not everything that was desirable was feasible and conversely not everything that was feasible was desirable and that it was in the balance between the desirable and the feasible that the optimum juridical norm could be located. We then added that it was therefore obvious that terrorism, because it was a complex phenomenon which was still undefined, could not be regulated in its entirety other than to the extent that clear social situations were being established to which clear-cut laws could be applied.
140.	Positive law is oriented towards the attainment of the common good, inspired in an ideal of justice, within the limits established by juridical security. In other words, juridical regulations, from the point of view of the technique of law, are limited by the principle of juridical security. This is the basis for the Roman aphorism, "summum jus, summa injuria". Consequently, any juridical regulation which seeks to embody sanctions against acts of violence having international repercussions cannot disregard these fundamental ideas. Thus, for example, there is in the Latin American countries a very wide traditional concept of the right of asylum. In any possible regulation the true and real humanitarian character of this institution must be safeguarded.
141.	On the other hand, every juridical norm must tend, by its very nature, towards its effective implementation. From the standpoint of the law and its purposes, it would be a contradiction in terms to dictate a juridical norm and not to apply it. At the international level this presupposes, moreover, the possibility of ratification by the largest possible number of States, especially in the case of the regulation of an act having multiple international repercussions.
142.	For all these reasons we believe, justifiably, that in any attempt to regulate acts of violence having international repercussions, prudence which does not exclude firmness must be exercised. We must, in like manner, proceed gradually that is to say, step by step, as results are obtained. Furthermore, the greatest possible number of national approvals should be sought, in order to make the provisions as effective as possible. That is why it is necessary to identify acts with great accuracy and to regulate those that command the consent of the largest number of nations which believe in the eminent dignity of the human person. Consequently, the most appropriate thing to do would be to address ourselves to fundamental situations: those most relevant to the universal common good, the ultimate objective of international law. To proceed otherwise would be to risk a regulation that would be impossible to apply adequately, through lack of universal ratification.
143.	The principles that should guide the struggle against violence and its various manifestations are the defence of the eminent dignity of the human person and the safeguarding of justice in international relations. In other words, the struggle against violence is aimed at ensuring man's dignity and safeguarding a just system of international relations. It is for this reason that all we have said does not, of course, preclude the right of peoples to rebel against tyranny, colonialism, neo-colonialism, racism or any other form of oppression. Indeed, in this case, it is the oppressors who practice violence; and the right to rebellion, legitimately exercised, represents the effort of the people to restore the infringed juridical order.
144.	All this is perfectly logical, since the different forms of oppression are attempts directed against the eminent dignity of the human person and, by disregarding it, are lacking in legality. Therefore, it is essential that at the same time that we proclaim the legitimate right of peoples to fight against the different forms of violence we should proclaim the right of peoples to rebel against the different forms of oppression. We are not trying by this means to allow the very violence we wish to combat. Indeed, the exercise of the legitimate right of peoples to rebel against the different forms of oppression is embodied within very specific ethical and political principles. We shall enumerate them briefly.
145.	It is necessary for the prevailing system to be unjust as a whole that is to say, as a system.
146.	All lawful means of combating the unjust order must have been exhausted. It is not, therefore, a question of irresponsibly exercising the right of recourse to force against the unjust order. Great harm will ensue as a result of that struggle. In other words, it is necessary that the system, by its very injustice, leaves no other alternative but force.
147.	The system to be instituted must be more just than the one that is combated, which presupposes that to destroy the existing one without preparing the regime that is to follow would not be admissible. Moreover, it is the justice of the system to be instituted that, among other reasons, makes legitimate the right to institute it.
148.	Definite prospects of success are required, so as not to subject the people to greater evils than those that are being fought.
149.	Ultimately, we cannot resort to any means indiscriminately. These, too, are subject to ethical norms. For instance, innocent persons, quite removed from the drama surrounding them, could not be attacked, and any kind of violence against the different means used by man to bring together the peoples of the world would be inadmissible.
150.	The principles we have just enunciated are based on the thinking of great philosophers and are still valid today. We believe that we should not forget them; that we should take them into account, in order that, in attempting to fight violence we should not fall into a serious error which could be used as a pretext by tyrannical regimes to maintain the unjust order.
151.	Having made this reservation, we condemn terrorism in all its forms because we condemn recourse to violence. The latter carries within it its own lethal dialectics: one act of violence is followed by another in a dynamic crescendo of recourse to violence.
152.	In man's every thought and heart-beat there is always a direct relationship between the positive-evolutionary forces and the instinctive-regressive violence. That dangerous relationship makes it possible to assess the risks and the advantages. And there will always be more risks than advantages, because hatred and violence spring from animal instinct, whereas understanding and friendship are created and recreated in the heart guided by reason.
153.	We reject as anti-human the postulate of inevitable violence, since its blind outbreak implies the very surrender of the human condition. But at the same time, we affirm that neither classical pacifism nor the dialectics of atomic horror, nor a Utopian international ideology will either singly or jointly suffice to solve the crucial problem of the violence and exasperation of the present-day world. Ideological hatred, generator of mistrust, misunderstanding and fanaticism, continues to be the major factor responsible for violence.
154.	But violence is not exercised exclusively through action. Omission and negligence in the face of a state of violence may be equally compromising. The spirit guilty of routine and the status quo of inertia and immobility in the face of conflicts and divergences are the direct cause of the irrational paroxysm of violence. Thus, before the final judgment of history and mankind, those responsible for omission or surrender of the necessary political will are as guilty as the irrational agents of violence themselves.
155.	The struggle against violence is, therefore, not only a juridical but a political, economic, social, cultural, ethical and religious fact as well. It is a task devolving on us all. It entails individual and collective, national and international action. It likewise entails the institution of a new international order in which relations among peoples lead towards the attainment of the universal common good inspired in international social justice. Indeed, in the final analysis, the struggle against violence is the building of peace itself.


===== Session 28 - 1973 =====
﻿78.	Mr. President, the distinguished speakers who have addressed this Assembly before me from this rostrum have offered their sincere congratulations to you on the great honour which the Assembly has conferred on you by electing you to preside over this session. On behalf of my Government and on my own behalf, may I tell you how pleased we are to endorse those significant tributes. Your election is a well-deserved tribute that we pay your country, which is so closely linked to ours by so many different ties, especially by the imperishable figure of our common Liberator, Sim6n Bolivar, and which is a land admirable for its natural beauty and the noble quality of its men. It is also a just recognition of your many and varied personal merits and virtues, of your long career as a public figure, and of your unflagging devotion to the cause of peace.
79.	On this occasion it is likewise fitting to express our special appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Stanislaw Trepczynski, whose equanimity has garnered the sympathy and affection of us all.
80.	It is particularly gratifying to us to take this opportunity to extend a cordial welcome to the new States Members of the Organization: the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, the Federal Republic of Germany and the German Democratic Republic.
81.	This twenty-eighth session of the General Assembly is of special significance to me personally. It is, in fact, the fifth and last year of the constitutional term of office of the
President of Venezuela, Mr. Rafael Caldera. It is also the fifth time that I am addressing this august Assembly.
82.	For that reason, in the present general debate I shall refrain from giving in detail our position on the specific items on the agenda. My delegation will express the views of my Government in the relevant debates. In this unique United Nations forum I shall, on the other hand, refer to the fundamental principles that have guided the course of the international policy of my Government during these last five years in its endeavours to contribute to the coming into being of a new, just and humane international order.
83.	Profound economic, social, political and cultural differences separate the peoples of the world. It is true that there are varying degrees of wealth and power, of poverty and weakness. Nevertheless, we can affirm that the world is divided into two major sectors, namely, a minority of countries which have everything and a majority of countries which have little or nothing.
84.	The imbalance between the developed and the developing countries grows day by day. Wealth and progress are still in the hands of the same States. Whichever way one looks at it, there is a lack of three indissolubly linked fundamental elements of development — capital, educational level and technology — that engender a vicious circle of poverty.
85.	These serious inequalities, added to the desire for domination and the ambition for power over human communities, have given rise to and maintain actual patterns of subjection exercised by the developed countries over the under-developed ones.
86.	Four main instruments help to shape these patterns of subjection: so-called international aid, the deterioration of the terms of international trade, foreign investments and the power which weapons and money give.
87.	Although any generalization invariably conceals a simplification, we might perhaps describe the patterns of subjection at present prevailing in the world as falling into two categories: a system of subjection based on economics and another based on ideology.
88.	Under the economic system of subjection the underdeveloped countries, being a prey to the developed countries' desire for gain, suffer economic domination, which in turn leads to the loss of their political and cultural independence. Under the ideological system of subjection, the developing countries are prey to the developed countries' desire for ideological penetration and we see their structures infiltrated, falling under the control of the developed countries and, ultimately, losing their economic freedom and their political independence.
89.	On the other hand, we are well aware that the international order engendered by the policy of blocs and the balance of power has not achieved peace. It has only succeeded in preventing a global conflagration, but armed conflicts have not ceased since the very moment when the Second World War ended. The very precariousness of peace teaches us that the system of international relations under which we live cannot lead us to the objective so earnestly desired by all, namely, peaceful coexistence and the harmonious development of peoples. It is essential that we build a new international order, inspired by lofty and enduring principles and not by considerations of practical expediency.
90.	We consider that the fundamental goal of the present- day world is development. Pope Paul VI, in his now familiar phrase, stated that the new name for peace was development. Indeed, as long as there are inequalities existing between men and an unjust distribution of the benefits of progress, in both the domestic and the international field, there can be no peace. Inequalities are a sign of injustice, and injustice in the end engenders violence.
91.	Development, however, cannot be of any kind. It must be a development that is harmonious, fair and balanced, both within each country and among all nations. Therefore we must not confuse development with economic growth, or material well-being with progress. Man does not live by bread alone. Development must encompass the total man, and all men, the whole nation, and all nations.
92.	On the other hand, the harmonious and human development of civilization transcends all divisions within States or among States. Art, science, philosophy, literature, are in our times more than ever before the fruits of collective endeavour.
93.	The scientific and technological revolution has brought men and peoples closer than at any other time in the history of mankind. Thus the outbreak of a contagious disease in one part of the world endangers the whole world. As we stated in 1971 before the General Assembly:
"Thus there emerges a new concept: that of mankind. We think of mankind as all the peoples of the world and, thus conceived, mankind appears to us as a world-wide society which encompasses us all and which is in opposition to individual societies or States, having their own lives, it is true, but dependent on the development of that greater society.
"Thus, then, as it does internally where each State seeks the realization of the common good of all its citizens, in the universal society of nations there is also need for a Universal Common Good which is the objective and raison d'etre of international authority and of the action of each of the States making up mankind." 
94.	How can we fight pollution and. the destruction of nature unless we take a loftier view that compels us to be ever mindful of the supreme interests of humanity?
95.	How can we radically change the existing unjust structure in the international division of labour, where some countries export their manufactures at increasingly higher prices and others export their raw materials at increasingly lower prices, other than by the conception of an economy on a world scale?
96.	The universal common good presupposes a system for the international distribution of production; or, in other words, all countries being members of the community of nations must be able to be a part of a real and effective system of universal economy that provides for all stages of the economic process. This necessarily implies the formulation of a global and comprehensive world economic policy aimed at the development of humanity; the universal common good — and not merely the development of a group of privileged countries. In the name of that universal common good we must question the development patterns followed by the modern industrialized countries, both in the East and in the West.
97.	Every action has to be inspired and guided by an underlying principle. Hence at the international level we must have a set of values, that is to say, a principle towards which our action is directed and which guides our action. That principle is the principle of international social justice, which has been proclaimed with ardent conviction by the President of our Republic in many international forums.
98.	The industrial revolution brought in its wake profound poverty among the workers, who were subjected to the law of supply and demand. Wages declined steadily, while their needs grew. In this situation, the workers became aware of their poverty and sought a principle that would raise their spirits and lend weight to their claims. That principle was the principle of social justice. They combined their efforts and turned their common weaknesses into strength. The first trade unions came into being, and with them the development of the labour movement.
99.	Social justice became the dynamic moving force behind a multitude of economic, social, political and cultural changes. Justice was the regulating principle, seeking to restore the balance between the "haves" and the "have-nots", between the strong and the weak, the rich and the poor, the employers and the workers, the socially strong and the socially weak.
100.	In the name of social justice, fiscal legislation was changed and it seemed perfectly logical that those who had the most should shoulder the heaviest burdens. In the name of social justice, labour protection laws were passed to restore the balance between employers and workers. In the name of social justice, an entirely new perspective of struggle and global transformation emerged and a new concept of economic and social relations was defined.
101.	Why should we not bring that social justice into the international order? Why should we not use the set of values that enabled men to change substantially the internal situation of many countries? Why should we not use that set of values as a principle to transform the international order and thus rid it of the injustices on which it is based? At this point I should like to yield to President Caldera and quote from his address to the United States Congress:
"Just as 'society', in the national ambit, has the right to impose different relations among its members, so the 'international community' demands that the peoples of the world participate according to their capacity, that 'all' may live a human existence. The rights and duties of the different peoples must therefore be measured in terms of the capacities and needs of each, in order to
make peace, harmony and progress possible and so that we may all develop in a spirit of genuine friendship.
"If we believe that an international community exists, if we honestly maintain that all men constitute a great society and that that great society has the right to exist and prosper, then it is essential that the burdens and responsibilities taken on for its sake be in keeping with the relative opportunities, the strength, and the degree of development and wealth of some people."
102.	Furthermore, this principle applies to developing countries such as ours. Among us, too, those who have the most must accept greater obligations. We could hardly cry out against the injustices of the great Powers if we were to practise among ourselves the very acts of injustice which we reproach them for.
103.	In the light of the principle of international social justice, the whole range and outlook of the unsuitably termed "international aid" takes on a completely different complexion and perspective. It is not a question of a favour, but of a duty. The greater the possibilities, the greater the obligations. On the other hand, it is inadmissible that a "developed" country should demand of a "developing" country a counterpart equal to, or even greater than, the "value" of the "assistance" rendered. And it is even more inconceivable that the "assistance" should be used to pressure or to coerce the "assisted" country. How can underdevelopment be overcome in such conditions? We were right when we stated, on several occasions, that the wealth of the developed countries has its roots in the poverty of the developing countries.
104.	Let us also consider the over-all aspects of foreign investments from the point of view of international social justice. True, the developing countries need foreign capital to attain their own development. However, those investments should not be prompted either by a profit motive or by a desire for ideological invasion, because, in either case, such investments lead to the subjugation of the country in which they are made.
105.	International social justice, on the contrary, demands that foreign capital investments be directed towards the development of the individual and of all the men in the country where such investments are made. It also requires that States respect each other, and hence exclude any abuse of power by the stronger against the weaker.
106.	The realities of the present-day world prompt us to speak on the subject of ideological pluralism. May I be permitted to make a few remarks in this connexion to dispel any possible misunderstanding.
107.	Man is a rational and free being. As a human being he is responsible for his destiny. Hence, he has the right to act out his role in life. That is why we speak of self- determination and the fulfilment of the human being.
108.	Similarly, in a national community, the various human groups, legitimately constituted, have the right to pursue and give expression to the various conceivable ways in which their purpose may be realized. This, logically, implies the right to dissent and to express dissent.
109.	For analogous reasons also, every national community in turn has the legitimate right to fulfil its own destiny and, consequently, to carry out in full freedom its historic mission within the international community. The existing system has enshrined that right in a number of principles, namely: legal equality and mutual respect among States; the self-determination of peoples and non-interference in the internal affairs of other States.
110.	The diversity of economic and social regimes and systems which exist in the various States on the one hand, and, on the other, the need to establish conditions of legal security for the benefit of peace, have ushered in a new phase in the relations between peoples that we call "ideological pluralism". It follows as a corollary from the aforementioned principles, and it is in this context that it can be correctly interpreted.
111.	Ideological pluralism implies the coexistence, at one and the same time, of different ways of establishing the scale of values according to which a society is structured and organized.
112.	Because of its origin and source, if we wish to be consistent, ideological pluralism at the international level presupposes — or at least should presuppose — the application of the same principle that is applied at the national level, with the consequent right to dissent.
113.	To invoke ideological pluralism at the international level while denying it at the national level reveals a serious inconsistency. In point of fact, it is tantamount to invoking in the international order the self-same right that 'is denied in the domestic order.
114.	I should like now to refer to Latin America. In the international concert of nations there are countries that are bound by very special ties. This is particularly outstanding in the case of the Latin American countries.
115.	For us, Latin American unity is a historical necessity . if the countries of Latin America are to play their part in the
development of mankind.
116.	My Government is convinced of this historic reality. The President of the Republic, on a recent tour of a number of countries in South America, proclaimed the urgent need for that unity within what he termed "the pluralist solidarity".
117.	It goes one step beyond ideological pluralism, because this can be viewed as a part of a system of "coexistence", namely, a system whereby one country accepts that
another should have a different conception of its own economic, political and social order. However, such a system does not preclude there being a latent state of war, since one of the parties regards the internal order of the other as unjust, feels that it should cease to exist and is waiting for it to disintegrate, or even goes as far as to try to bring about deliberately its downfall, in a struggle for world hegemony.
118.	For its part, pluralist solidarity presupposes a system of coexistence where it is not enough to "tolerate" those who are different, but where it is actually necessary to "want" to be different, in order to achieve the common
historic goals which we place over and above our contingent momentary differences. In other words, we sacrifice our present differences — which are merely contingent — for a future which is permanent and for the sake of which we must all unite.
119.	It would be a serious mistake to begin to build the world of tomorrow on existing models. The results are before us.
120.	History bears witness to one certain fact: underdevelopment will not be surmounted by the use of familiar, known methods. We are aware of no under-developed country that has overcome its under-development. Other ways must be found. . . . The Club of the developed countries, Eastern and Western, is still exclusive and excluding.
121.	We believe that it is possible for each country to find its own course. It is based on the methodology of the trade union struggle, an historic experiment that has proved to be effective'. What were the trade unions? They were associations of workers who by combining their weaknesses turned them into strength.
122.	The trade unions, however, soon realized that in order to be truly powerful they had to unite. And so the trade union federations came into being. These, in turn, realized that they, too, had to unite to acquire even greater authority. In fact, just as not all trade unions had the same strength, so too not all federations had the same power. Thus did the trade union confederations emerge. They moved from the national to the international level.
123.	Let us transpose that experience to our own struggle against under-development on the international level. The primary-commodity producing countries would form organizations at the international level, enabling them to achieve their just aspirations on the world market. That is what we affirmed at the third session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development [UNCTAD], held at Santiago in 1972, in Santiago.
124.	It has sometimes been said, "more trade, less assistance". And that would be so if trade were fair. But how can the terms of trade become more just unless the developing countries unite? We cannot sit at the negotiating table if v/e have no power to negotiate, and that power can be acquired only by having representative organizations backed by numerical strength. *
125.	It will therefore be of paramount importance to organize the primary-commodity producing countries on a sectorial basis.
126.	This would be a unique way for the developing countries, for the producers of primary commodities, to organize, and a way that requires no promises of the kind that are made to be broken, a way that would change the structure of power between developed and developing countries.
127.	It is a methodology that is taking its first steps in the field of petroleum, and it will not prove fully effective until we are able to extend it to other significant primary commodities — namely, those without which there can be no development process.
128.	That methodology can and should be improved on, and even supplemented. Just as the trade union movement of the developed countries created its own security, economic, social and financial structures, so too there would be no obstacle to the primary-commodity producing developing countries initiating experiments towards the same goal.
129.	There are difficulties involved in putting into practice the idea we propose. Stultifying national egotisms will have to be surmounted. But did not the trade unions encounter many and even greater obstacles in their struggle to improve the lot of the workers? This is the great challenge for the under-developed countries: to find their own way.
130.	In conclusion, allow me to make a comparison. According to legend, St. Christopher used to help travellers across the river by carrying them on his shoulders.
131.	The river is under-development; St. Christopher the developed countries; the travellers, the developing countries. Up until now the developed countries have carried us on their shoulders.
132.	If violence is not to take over the world, and if peace is to reign on earth, changes will have to be made.
133.	It will be necessary for St. Christopher to give travellers a helping hand, and no longer to carry them on his shoulders. Thus, and only thus will the travellers one day be' able to cross the river by themselves.
134.	The way lies before us. It is called "international social justice."

===== Session 29 - 1974 =====
Before beginning my statement may I express on behalf of Venezuela our condolences and our grief on hearing the sad news of the passing of Mr. Paul Hoffman. He was more than a United States citizen: he was a citizen of the world. His devotion and activity not only in the cause of freedom but also in that of helping the poor will be a lasting example to all Governments and peoples of the world.
130.	I should like to begin with a most cordial and friendly message of solidarity from the people and Government of Venezuela for the noble efforts of co-operation which this great Organization is making for development, good understanding and peace among its Members. Despite the diversity of the economic systems and the degrees of development of its Members, the United Nations provides all of them with the most favorable atmosphere for the presentation, analysis and solution of their individual and collective problems, thus giving a clear example of what can and must be achieved through dialog for the benefit of mankind as a whole in all the diverse aspects of present day life, beset as we are by the most complex circumstances.
131.	The United Nations undoubtedly represents the best effort that the mind and soul of man have been able to devise in this century for the realization and strengthening of man's oldest and most constant dream: freedom and peace. It was thus that our own liberator, Simon Bolivar, saw it, and to that end he struggled to the day of his death, he who was the Father of our Venezuelan homeland and of five other nations of the Western hemisphere. It was thus that he anticipated by more than a century the very conception of an organization for which he drew the guidelines and which is similar to this Organization to which we have the honor of belonging.
132.	Venezuela shares in full solidarity the pain and anguish of its sister Republic of Honduras at the vast material damage and loss of life which it suffered as a result of the recent hurricane which devastated that country. The people and Government of Venezuela have been co-operating from the very first moments of the catastrophe, mobilizing available resources to assist the affected townships.
133.	We wish also to extend to the Government and people of Peru our sympathy and sorrow in the natural calamities that have recently befallen that brother nation.
134.	Without disguising my own personal pleasure at this first opportunity given to me to enjoy the honor of addressing this world parliament, it is with satisfaction and pride that I discharge the pleasant duty entrusted to me by the Government of Venezuela of paying public tribute to the eminent Latin American who preceded you, Mr. President, in your high office. Mr. Leopoldo Benites carried out with talent and skill the delicate tasks entrusted to him by the General Assembly, not only at the twenty-eighth session but also at the sixth special session and later on his visits of goodwill and understanding to a number of Member States of the Organization. Among them, my own country enjoyed the privilege of welcoming him as a distinguished guest, as befitted his high office. We Latin Americans in particular are justifiably proud at having been so ably represented by this experienced and invaluable statesman, who fulfilled the highest and noblest task that the Organization can require of any person.
135.	Mr. President, I wish to extend to you the warmest and most sincere congratulations of the Government of Venezuela on your well-deserved election to preside over the present session of the General Assembly. I am sure that under your efficient guidance we shall successfully complete the delicate tasks entrusted to us. For Venezuela and the Venezuelan people it cannot but be a source of satisfaction to see a distinguished son of Algeria elevated to occupy such a high post, for Algeria is a country linked to our own by close ties of friendship which date back to the days when the valiant people of Algeria were struggling for their independence. Today, Algeria and Venezuela stand together in the just struggle which is being fought so that the peoples that are still oppressed may achieve the recognition of their inalienable right to both political and economic freedom and independence.
136.	We stand together also in the effort to achieve an international society where a mere just social and economic order prevails, and therefore an order that will be more equitable. We stand together—Venezuela and Algeria, united as we are with all the peoples of Africa, Asia, Latin America and, in general, the third world in the constant and unremitting struggle to bring about an international society which will lead to a more equitable distribution of the wealth of our planet, in order to benefit all mankind and put an end to the odious differences between great and small countries, between weak and powerful nations, between rich and poor peoples. We in Venezuela believe the time has come to refine and combine our efforts to make a reality of the much advocated but as yet theoretical principle of the legal equality of States. For this to become an actual fact and be reflected in genuine conquests of contemporary mankind, we must put an end to the privileges enjoyed by the few to the detriment of the many. It is imperative that we at long last effectively assist the peoples who have up to now been dominated selfishly by the hegemony of certain countries in a system in which great masses of men, women and children have been kept in intolerable material and spiritual wretchedness. That reality has sometimes been covered over with the mask of apparent aid that in some cases has resulted in the creation of a new form of economic dependency.
137.	I am particularly pleased, too, to express to the Secretary-General our gratitude and support for his constant dedication to the United Nations and for the invaluable services he has always rendered to the Organization, and for his political, economic and social endeavors.
138.	On the occasion of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, we enjoyed the honor of a visit of the Secretary-General, to whom the Government and people of Venezuela extended the hospitality which is due to so exalted a personality.
139.	We in Venezuela are convinced that the time has come to encourage and to carry out jointly among all States the adjustment and transformation required by the new international economic order that was proclaimed by the sixth special session of the General Assembly.
140.	The United Nations has many accomplishments to its credit; but when decisions have to be made, hesitations arise and vested interests tend to take over and in many cases the pressure of the strong over the weak becomes manifest. This proves the need for a thorough and genuine restructuring of the Organization, which is rapidly progressing towards universality.
141.	My country has always asserted the need to transform the Organization into a true international forum, a place where pressing problems of all kinds that beset the international community can be aired and studied freely and objectively. That is why it is a matter of particular gratification for my country to welcome the three new States that have just joined the United Nations, namely, Bangladesh, Grenada and Guinea-Bissau.
142.	Two )f those new States emerge into independent life after a lengthy period of colonial domination, and, as far as Venezuela is concerned, we cannot hide the fact that in the specify case of Grenada we are especially pleased. Not only is Grenada our close neighbor, located in the Caribbean, but also, we are linked by ties of friendship and co-operation based on the search for a real and honest Latin American integration for the mutual benefit of our peoples, so closely linked by history and a promising common destiny.
143.	The admission to the United Nations of each new State that emerges into independent life highlights once again the invaluable work done by the United Nations in this field.
144.	The phenomenon of decolonization is an irreversible historical process. The latest events in Africa prove if proof is still necessary that no Power can hope to keep under the colonial yoke those peoples that aspire to exercise their inalienable right to self-determination, freedom and independence.
145.	Regardless of whatever form colonial domination may adopt, it is a fallacy to perpetuate the subjection of a people that sooner or later must end by liberating itself, as had just been done by the former so-called Overseas Provinces of Portugal. I avail myself of this opportunity to offer to the Government of Portugal our most heartfelt congratulations on its change of stand regarding the colonial question, an action which ennobles Portugal in the eyes of the peoples of the entire world.
146.	Along this same line of thinking, we are pleased to take note of the fact that Spain has clearly expressed its intention to comply with and implement General Assembly resolution 3162 (XXVIII), so as to terminate the colonial regime in the Spanish Sahara. It will thus be implementing the principles contained in resolution 1514 (XV), in defense of the interests of the population of that Territory. Also, by inviting the United Nations to be present during the process of self-determination, Spain is complying with the relevant United Nations decisions and reaffirming its support for the principles of decolonization that have been advocated and championed by the Organization.
147.	In the twenty-ninth year of its existence, the United Nations will have to face the collapse of one system and direct its efforts to the creation of a new one, one more in keeping with the reality of a rapidly changing world.
148.	Thus far, our system of coexistence has been characterized by the existence of independent and dependent States. The development, wealth and welfare of the former were nourished by the subordination and submission of the latter and the exploitation of their natural resources. At present, thanks largely to the work done by the United Nations, that relationship of dependency has changed and given way to a relationship of interdependence. The crisis threatens to display features more marked than those that are beginning to emerge in those countries that developed their industry according to their own exclusive needs and desires. The present period of transition and expectation is unprecedented in the history of mankind. For the first time mankind is becoming aware of the fact that it is, in fact, one and indivisible. Well-being and the benefits of culture and civilization, in general, must be shared more far more if they are to be genuinely lasting. All States should have access to markets and to technology. Each must contribute its share, but not for the excessive benefit of some and to the detriment of others.
149.	The developing countries are now sovereign States, aware of their rights, of their duties and of their potential and ready at all times to defend their permanent sovereignty over their natural resources. The developed nations achieved their positions through the purchase of raw materials and sources of energy at unjustifiably low prices.
150.	The well-being of one third of the world has hitherto been achieved at the expense of the other two thirds: a single industrialized country, with only 6 per cent of the world's population, uses for its own benefit more than half the mineral resources of the world. The emergency situation the world is experiencing calls for concentrated efforts to seek and apply corrective measures urgently and promptly. The need has become obvious for rational management of renewable and non-renewable resources that would take into account the interests of all countries.
151.	A confrontation on a world scale to effect a redistribution of markets and raw materials will not have to happen if we, the States Members of the United Nations, as consumers and producers, are reasonable enough to hold an open dialog, with the aim of seeking equitable formulas for understanding on the basis of new definitions of the terms of trade that will redress the long-standing and unfair treatment by the developed countries of those on the road to development. To reconstruct the system along lines consonant with the new international dynamics and requirements will require bold and vigorous efforts that may at last make possible a world based on equality, justice and equity the only viable conditions for the achievement of that cooperation which is the basic source of well-being and peace.
152.	As we see it, the Assembly is the appropriate forum for that purpose. It was created for that end and not as an arena for the uttering of threats by those who possess the dubious privilege of controlling the means of international intimidation and force. Here we can and must find new formulas for peace, cooperation and understanding.
153.	We hope that during the present session the work in regard to the happy initiative of President Echeverria of Mexico will be crowned with success and that we may be able to adopt the draft Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, a project to which Venezuela has at all times given its wholehearted backing.
154.	The developing countries, aware of their responsibility, advocated the convening of the sixth special session of the Genera) Assembly in order to discuss openly and plainly the bases for new mechanisms for the harmonious conduct of international relations, in accordance with the present world situation.
155.	The initiative of the developing countries has led to one of the most important steps ever taken by the United Nations. I am referring, of course, to the Declaration on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order [resolution 3201 (S-VI)] and the corresponding Program of Action [resolution 3202 (S-VI)] which were adopted in May of this year. Thus the developing countries wished to anticipate the emergency situation which has arisen lately, to the real or potential detriment of the entire international community and particularly to the detriment of those countries whose economies are especially vulnerable.
156.	We are bound to recognize that, despite the great efforts made by the Secretary-General and his Special Representative, the emergency operation that the Assembly requested the Secretary-General to launch as part of the Special Program of the Program of Action has not got under way as successfully as it should have. The majority of the developed countries have adopted a "wait and see" attitude as though the onus of the financial burden of such an operation should fall on the members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). These countries in defense of their common interests have after many years of effort managed to attain their rightful position in a world where their main, and at times only natural, resource is squandered a resource which is as vital for them as it is for the rest of the international community.
157.	We believe it imperative to insist that neither Venezuela nor the other petroleum-exporting countries will in any way shirk their responsibilities in the present situation a situation that is undeniably financially favorable to them but certainly not one where there is real wealth and no grave problems. We, the petroleum-exporting countries, have tried to tackle the difficulties created by the new situation, in which, besides oil, many other factors of equal, if not greater, importance have had a powerful effect, factors such as the inflation that affects the whole world and that has been generated primarily by the industrialized States.
158.	In keeping with this vie w, Venezuela has pledged contributions to help in facing the difficulties of the present situation that amount to a considerable sum, according to the financial structure and capacity of our country. I must of necessity draw attention to this matter, even if only in generic terms not immodestly, but as an objective demonstration of the position adopted by my country in this field of international economic co-operation.
159.	The financial contributions made by Venezuela are equivalent to 1.2 per cent of its gross national product, and it is relevant to point out that the pledges made by the industrialized countries to assist the developing nations along these lines in most cases do not even reach one percent of their gross national product.
160.	The financial contributions pledged by Venezuela include $100 million for the Special Program; $500 million for a trust fund to be operated by the Inter- American Development Bank, $150 million for the Trust Funds of the Andean Development Corporation, the Central American Development Bank and the Caribbean Development Bank; and for the latter we have set up a special fund of $10 million. We have also made a contribution of $450 million for Special Drawing Rights which are the equivalent of $540 million for the so-called oil facilities of IMF. Venezuela is also ready to contribute to the Fund of OPEC, and intends to help encourage agricultural and industrial development projects in the countries of the third world. We are thus ensuring the fulfillment of one of the targets of the recently created Venezuelan Investment Fund, which is to strengthen international co-operation.
161.	The foregoing is simple, but I think appropriate and a clear demonstration of the stand of the President of Venezuela, Carlos Andres Perez, and his Government in this respect, but I feel that it is also appropriate to supplement the information by mentioning the position taken by my country in the preparatory session of the World Food Conference, that is, that there should be no acceptance of discussion that assessment of contributions to international organizations can be specifically based on oil income, for we contend that such contributions must be based on national per capita income with special consideration given to those developing nations which are going through difficult economic situations.
162.	In line with this argument, let me refer to the Declaration and Program of Action that proclaimed the new international economic order. As might have been expected, the reasons that led the General Assembly to take such action at that time are still valid, so the process of implementation must be speeded up vigorously. If that holds true regarding the emergency situation, which continues to deteriorate with all its real or potential risks to the entire international community and particularly to those countries whose economies have been most severely affected, it is also true in regard to the medium- and long-range programs that are intended to set the new international economic order in motion. Both aspects are indissolubly linked. For all efforts to be tightly and coherently co-ordinated on a world-wide scale, the totality of measures making up the Program of Action must be fully implemented.
163.	As an immediate step, as the Secretary-General has pointed out, it is necessary that the United Nations possess sufficient resources to be able to attend expeditiously to urgent needs and to ensure a certain balance in the distribution of the total resources of the emergency operation. Furthermore, the Government of Venezuela attaches special importance to the prompt beginning of the activities of the Special Fund, failing which the Special Program provided for in the Pro-gramme of Action will not be fully realized, as was so cogently pointed out by the outgoing President of the General Assembly, Leopoldo Benites, at the beginning of this session [2233rd meeting].
164.	The present critical situation which the world is going through will not be resolved without a convergence of all efforts at the international level which will also take in the overall problem of raw materials. In the measure that correlation and balance is struck between the prices of raw materials and manufactures, we shall strengthen the possibility of putting a brake on the inflation which has been unleashed in the industrialized countries, the damaging effects of which no one has escaped and which might lead to a profound crisis with unforeseeable effects on all mankind.
165.	Furthermore, the delegation of Venezuela considers it necessary to reaffirm before this great Assembly, where representatives of almost all the States of the present international community are represented, some of the ideas expressed by the President of Venezuela, Carlos Andres Perez to the President of the United States of America, Gerald Ford, a few days ago in an important document which is already on public record [see AI9784]. This defines the position of our head of State in the light of the address made to this very same General Assembly [2234th meeting] by the head of State of the most highly industrialized country of all the already developed nations. The President of Venezuela felt bound to define quite clearly and firmly w he and his Government feel regarding issues as vital and crucial for the present and future of our developing nations, as was the statement made by the Head of the Government of the United States, the host country to the United Nations.
166.	The categorical statements made by our President not only have enjoyed unanimous support among all the political sectors which make up public opinion in our country, but have also received solid endorsement by highly authorized spokesmen and great personalities of many nations. We obviously consider this to be a signal honor, and it also proves how accurate are the ideas contained in that weighty document. In substance, it is clear and simple but it is also eloquent since as our Head of State has averred truth is always clear and simple:
"The raw materials produced by our countries were purchased year after year at prices which were never in proportion to or in equilibrium with the prices of the manufactured goods which our countries require for their development and which have been purchased largely in the United States, not only for geographical reasons but also because of the credits tied to the United States economy that have traditionally been made available to us."
Particularly as regards Latin America, our President's letter adds:
"For many decades, we in Latin America have persistently demanded just and equitable treatment by the developed countries and primarily, of course, by our neighbor and traditional friend, the United States of America. We have repeatedly pointed to the impoverishment of our countries .
"Each year we, the countries which produce coffee, meat, tin, copper, iron or petroleum, have been handing over a larger amount of our products in order to obtain imports of machinery and other manufactured goods, and this has resulted in a constant and growing outflow of capital and impoverishment of our countries.
"In Latin America, as in the other developing countries, we can assert that the developed countries have been taking advantage of the fundamental needs of the Latin American, Asian or African man. To cite the particular case of Venezuela, petroleum prices showed a steady decline for many years, while our country was obliged to purchase manufactured goods from the United States at ever- higher prices, which, day after day, restricted even further the possibilities of development and well- being for Venezuelans.
"The establishment of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) was a direct consequence of the developed countries' use of a policy of outrageously low prices for our raw materials . . .
"The world food crisis is a consequence, inter alia, of the high prices at which the developed nations sell us agricultural and industrial machinery and other inputs essential to agriculture and the growth of our economies."
The President of Venezuela also maintains in his letter to the President of the United States of America that the Government of Venezuela agrees with the view expressed by him in the United Nations to the effect that "a world of economic confrontation cannot be a world of political co-operation" but our President goes on to say:
"The economic Confrontation has been created by the major Powers, which refuse to allow the developing countries equal participation in the search for an indispensable balance in the terms of trade. Within the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Venezuela has not used no r will it use its energy resources as a political weapon because that is not and never has been the purpose for which that organization was established; rather, its purpose was to protect the basic wealth extracted from our subsoil at prices that have never compensated for the costs of our imports and of the technology needed for our development.
"We see no other way to confront the economic totalitarianism that has been coming to the fore in business and world trade" said our Head of State "and portends as much evil for the world as was threatened by political totalitarianism in the form of Nazi fascism, against which your great country fought, rendering the world a heroic and splendid service that earned the gratitude of all mankind.
"The World Food Conference which FAO is preparing to hold in November will not be able to achieve its lofty objectives if we in the developing countries do not succeed in guaranteeing remunerative prices for the raw materials we produce, prices that are in the necessary and fitting balance with the prices of the manufactured goods we import."
And President Carlos Andres Perez of Venezuela concludes with the following telling remarks:
"In view of your important statement in the United Nations, I wish to place on public record this statement of Venezuela's position and the willingness of my Government to work in an international forum to establish a balanced relationship between the raw materials produced by our countries, on the one hand, and the manufactured goods and technology, on the other, which are possessed by the developed countries and are in essence the source of economic marginality and growing poverty in which over half of mankind continues to live. Venezuela perforce takes a sympathetic view of any attempt at finding solutions to the great problems of our time in global terms, but only if a global perspective does not mean that the large countries will prevail over the small countries. It would be dangerous, ineffective and harmful for global and universal solutions to lose sight of the fact that the world includes us as well. It cannot be supposed, Mr. President, that consumers are limited to one part of the world."
167.	The ideas quoted above are equally applicable or similarly apposite to the nature of bilateral or multilateral relations which, in the economic field, have been applied in terms of trade between the few industrialized countries of the world and the many that are painfully embarked on the road to their own economic and social development.
168.	The phenomenon is not characteristic nor exclusively that of a few countries but is common to all, both developed and developing, the only differences being those of degree and form. But, as I pointed out at the beginning of my address, what is at the root of the matter and I want to emphasize this is that while political independence has slowly but progressively been achieved over the centuries by the members of the international community, their economic independence, as well as the economic interdependence among them, will brook no further delays. The political values of the international community have, almost perceived, been replaced by economic values; a skillful manipulation of incalculable magnitude has taken place whereby the clumsy hegemony of the powerful over the weak which was genetically referred to as "colonialism" has given way to an equally imperialistic but less obvious attitude that has been called " neocolonialism".
169.	Permit me, without unduly prolonging this speech, to make a few remarks concerning some of the items on the agenda of the present session of the General Assembly. We are all aware that the main problems in the Middle East still await solution. We believe that perhaps the best forum in which to seek such solutions is that provided by the Geneva Peace Conference on the Middle East if, that is, that Conference is given the determined support of the Organization and if, within the framework of the United Nations, the great Powers co-operate frankly and fully. Venezuela, as an eminently peace-loving nation, is mindful of the law and advocates international co-operation, and will always support any action aimed at achieving a truly just settlement which will respect the rights of ail the parties involved in the conflict.
170.	Another case that must be settled within a wide political consensus of the parties involved is that of Cyprus. In that matter the United Nations must play the role assigned to it by the Charter. The interference of third parties in the evolution of domestic policies must be totally barred and the principles of self-determination and non-intervention enshrined in the Charter must be fully and effectively ensured. As the Secretary-General points out in the introduction to his report on the work of the Organization, it is obvious that the effectiveness of the United Nations in the solution of the Cyprus problem hinges basically on the support which the Member States may'.give to the decisions of its organs, as prescribed in the Charter.
171.	In these situations of conflict, Venezuela fervently hopes that the decisions of the Security Council will be complied with and that the parties concerned will abide fully by the peace-keeping measures adopted.
172.	With regard to general disarmament in all its aspects, I should like to stress the special interest of Venezuela in this matter. We adopt a practical approach to the subject from the point of view of international security, and therefore in the hope of achieving world peace, for peace that rests on fear is always precarious.
173.	The total prohibition of the use of chemical weapons is the least that the Assembly should achieve at the current session. The manufacture and use of such weapons conflict with the elementary principles of humanity and the fundamental values of mankind, as well as the spirit of the texts and instruments which the international community has drafted and pledged itself to respect and ensure respect for. We would go so far as to say that, even if the Charter of the United Nations did not exist, we should still be justified in protesting against the use of weapons which represent scientific progress only in relation to mass destruction and which highlight the most primitive and bestial instincts of destruction. If world wars and their tragic lessons do not provide arguments capable of dissuading nations from procuring even greater powers of collective destruction and devastation, we can hardly be optimistic about the achievement of harmonious progress for mankind.
174.	In speaking of this tragic and negative aspect of weapons of mass destruction, the peace-loving nations hope that a total ban on nuclear-weapon tests, including underground tests, will soon be implemented. Venezuela is especially gratified to note that on 31 March 1976 a test ban will come into force.
175.	It might seem that we, the smaller nations, can adopt this attitude because we do not have the "commitments" of the nuclear Powers, but we believe that nothing could be further from the truth. It is those "commitments" that may make victims of the weak because they amount to admitting as a yardstick of the greatness of a State its power to destroy, including even the danger of annihilating all mankind.
176.	There can be no doubt and herein lies the root of the problem that disarmament will be broad, complete and viable only when the moral values of our civilization change. It would seem at times that most of the leaders of the great Powers are themselves possessed by a series of doubts, suspicions and reservations which do not reflect the grandeur of their nations. We have no doubt that everybody will agree that it is precisely the great Powers which must set the example, since on them depend the manufacture, distribution and use of nuclear weapons. It is they which in some cases solve their balance-of- payments problem by the sale of weapons; they stimulate conflicts, sponsor wars, dismember nations and withhold vast resources from the solution of the great economic and social problems which confront mankind.
177.	Venezuela is by tradition among those States which support the total prohibition of chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons and nuclear tests. We also support negotiations aimed at creating nuclear-free zones all over the world, as has been done already in Latin America. In this connexion, Venezuela is also in favor of holding a world disarmament conference at the earliest possible moment.
178.	As was rightly stated in this same forum in 1962 by the then Foreign Minister of Venezuela, Marc Falcon Briceno:
"Nations which have no powerful army and which use no language other than that of principle" as in the case of Venezuela "firmly maintain that the problems plaguing this world in crisis can be solved by peaceful means" recognized by international law. " ... In keeping with the ideal of peace which is the very basis of our world Organization the Charter of the United Nations tells us 'to practice tolerance* and 'to live together in peace'. That is an ideal which cannot be achieved overnight. The history of mankind has been different, but its long and dramatic past has given rise to the conviction that war is not a solution, that it is always better to negotiate than to fight. It is in order to negotiate that we who constitute the United Nations have come together here. If only the great Powers, too, might be guided in their deliberations here by that spirit of understanding and faith in principles. If only those great Powers might forget that they possessed the most destructive weapons hitherto known, and might, like the small Powers, the unarmed Powers, rely on a surer and more human arsenal in their international disputes: on international law and the procedures laid down in our Charter, which are the only civilized means of solving any kind of problem between the States Members of our Organization."
179.	In matters of human rights, our position is, has been, and will be consistent and unchanging. We shall defend them wherever they may be in jeopardy. We advocate their strengthening wherever they are not practiced with sufficient determination, we support the institutions that protect them, and will raise our voice to call for their full implementation. Many of the subjects to be discussed by the Assembly are, in one way or another, connected with human rights. Injustice, inequality, discrimination, breaches of the peace all these are violations of human rights, and these very violations are a contradiction of the very essence of our nation.
180.	I wish to repeat that Venezuela is ready as always to support any proposal, any measure, calling for an investigation of the facts whenever there may exist a presumption that human rights have been violated, whether directly or indirectly. We advocate that jointly we should draw up a realistic balance-sheet of the social and economic situation of the world, as we are convinced that the inevitable relationship between underdevelopment and respect for human rights will be made manifest by us. The United Nations must continue its struggle to bring us ever closer to the ideal of social justice, the goal to which we all so earnestly aspire.
181.	The policy of detente which, as has been said, is indivisible and is being applied among the great Powers with' promising results, should be extended to the countries of the third world for the solution of their problems. Venezuela has advocated and will continue to support ways and means that will also bring about detente in our hemisphere. In this connexion, I wish to thank the Minister for External Relations of Cuba for his expression of support for Venezuela and its Government during his statement in the general debate [2258th meeting] when referring to the stand taken by President Carlos Andres Perez in defense of the interests of the Venezuelan people and of the developing nations. Those expressions reflect the desire of our Governments to normalize relations between two Caribbean neighbors, whose past history has more than once found them united in the defense of the interests of Latin America.
182.	Furthermore, and still speaking specifically of Latin America, including all the nations of the Caribbean, of which mine is one, President Carlos Andres Perez has, since he assumed office, been encouraging the holding in Caracas of a meeting of Latin American Heads of State or Government. The purpose of such a meeting would be to adopt practical measures to help solve our common concerns and meet our joint needs, thus taking advantage of the singular historic opportunity presented to our peoples. This initiative has been warmly welcomed by the majority of the Governments consulted.
183.	Venezuela is always ready to contribute, to the extent of its abilities, to building a new international order, and in this task it offers its co-operation as a country which, though small, has profound democratic and liberal convictions, is a convinced lover of peace and freedom, and a conscientious observer of the principles of non-intervention and self-determination of peoples.
184.	In the present picture in the main discouraging and sombre there is nevertheless one positive and encouraging aspect in that we can meet here, with our different points of view, and at times our conflicting interests, and still leave no doubt as to our firm determination to avoid the kind of confrontations in the world that have thus far proved ineffective as a means of solving problems.
185.	Those of us whose responsibility it is to govern must strive with all our strength and intelligence to combat the state of fear and of constant uncertainty facing the common man of today. We must not forget that partly because of that very state of fear and concern over a future that threatens us not only with wars, but also with misery and want, there can be no other possible alternative but that of a constructive dialog for peace, for security, and for economic and social justice.
186.	In closing, may I be allowed to make a firm declaration. Venezuela is fully aware of and accepts its responsibilities within the unstable scenario of our time. We will fulfill them, and we will do so with the unshaken determination to contribute to a fruitful and united co-operation among all the peoples of the world.


===== Session 30 - 1975 =====
127.	 The election of Mr. Thorn as President of this Assembly pleases us and makes us confident in advance that under his presidency this session will bring about useful results.
128.	At the same time I should like to congratulate Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Algeria, for his important contribution to the previous session of the General Assembly and to the seventh special session. We congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, for the moral and intellectual courage he has displayed in his work and for his interest in the new problems of the world.
129.	The thirtieth anniversary of the United Nations invites us to think deeply, not only on the future of the Organization but also on the future of the world.
130.	The most serious mistake that could be made would be to underrate everything the United Nations has done, during these 30 years, for peace in the world. No less serious a mistake would be to ask more from the United Nations than it actually can give. The Organization now has before it important problems in regard to restructuring itself. There is no doubt that over the past 30 years the emphasis and intensity of many subjects has changed. The legitimacy of the United Nations is now more complex and more demanding. As we come closer to new social and economic processes we shall have to become more dynamic and act more speedily. We are beginning live in an era of negotiations and compromises as well as of choices of alternatives. Understandings and compromises are possible but not always easy to achieve. In the next quarter of a century, the United Nations must contribute to outlining perspectives and discovering new horizons. The essential aim in the years to come will be to achieve a just world for all mankind.
131.	The United Nations was not born to shape a Utopia but to strengthen a specific community of free nations and help to formulate, in political and universal terms, the broad outlines of human development.
132.	The continuity of this great forum of nations and great world assembly for over a quarter of a century is proof of its moral vigour, its growing influence, and its genuine possibilities of existence and improvement.
133.	This has been a period of ever more complex mutations and changes in historical development. From pre-cybernetic society, some countries are moving ever more rapidly towards a post-industrial society, and from a world characterized by purely continental relations we are entering a period of historic simultaneity. This era, deeply influenced by multi- continental relations, ties and bonds, confers a global meaning to all that we aspire to, undertake or plan.
134.	The process of identification of the cold war has ended. Traditional models have been eroded. The time of automatic alignments is past.
135.	The era of social changes we live in has incorporated into the world of political decisions countries which today belong to this Organization and which aspire to be protagonists and not merely witnesses of international political decisions.
136.	The new countries thus constitute an emerging political power that is essential to the political and economic balance of the world. The developing countries now form a community of fundamental peoples no longer to be ignored or brushed aside. Their aspirations, their desire to participate in decisions and to affirm their destinies are not incompatible with the well-being of developed nations. On the contrary, the stability of the developing countries of the third world, the forcefulness of their identity and their dedication to stable goals of internal growth give them not only confidence in the international political and economic order, but contribute to the stability of the industrial countries. In the nineteenth century and until the Second World War, the balance of the world depended exclusively on understanding among the great Powers. At the present juncture in the life of man, the balance of the planet depends on all countries, whether they be poor or developed, large or small.
137.	The developing countries have no reason to apply automatic thinking which might lead them to repeat mistakes or processes of the industrial society. An important task for the new nations will be to conceive and devise their own formulas which will in some ways be original. Regrettably, there is not as yet sufficient communication between the third world and the industrial nations. Our countries find difficulty in getting their opinions and views brought to inter-national public attention and, to a certain extent, there is lack of information on the social and economic problems caused by poverty.
138.	We shall have to find a way out of these mechanisms of world-wide lack of information or counter- information which at times affect the prestige and the image to which the developing countries are entitled as far as world public opinion is concerned. There must be a review of the procedures and institutions of world public information so that in some way we can improve the balance of information and thus meet the information needs of all countries and not just of certain isolated countries or groups of countries. The present crisis is essentially the collapse of the standards and patterns of behaviour of the industrial society. There is no need for us to be heirs to those standards and patterns.
139.	This inevitable political change constitutes a historic event which is called interdependence, which has recently been dramatically revealed by the energy crisis and inflation. Both phenomena are the consequences of an economic and social system and of an artificially constructed type of balance directed towards the preservation of the economic health of the industrial nations alone. It was an unjust arbitrary order and the source of permanent imbalances and disturbances, which went hand in hand with habits of waste, uncontrolled military expenditure and unforgivable ethical omissions and negligence.
140.	Unrestrained consumerism and placing value exclusively on material assets as the only references of human growth and the yardstick of universal progress are the most notorious aberrations of that world order.
141.	For a long time the consequences were suffered only by the developing countries and by all the countries which now constitute the third world. More recently the effects of the system have been felt also by the industrial countries, which are now discovering a fundamental fact: the interdependence of nations. We, the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America, have so far been the traditional victims of dependence. Most of us in Latin America have enjoyed political independence since the beginning of the nineteenth century, but we remained involved within implacable mechanisms of economic subordination, from which we now wish to be free. Even now that interdependence is given a conceptual value, the dependence of the weaker countries still subsists. For interdependence to mean what it really should mean, concrete agreements are necessary which will alter the assessments and perspectives of the past.
142.	The United Nations and other international organizations allow us to evaluate the experiences gained from multilateral relations. Furthermore, bilateral relations are increasingly useful when they are frank, honest and to the point. But, in addition to this, it is necessary to point out the importance of concerted action whereby groups of nations agree on certain subjects. In that way, certain imbalances are being corrected and others can be rectified in the future.
143.	The decision to raise the price of oil was not a mere whim of irresponsible or adventurous Governments with the intention of committing aggression against the industrial nations or disturbing the world's economic balance. It was a decision of sovereign countries which did not want to continue to permit the devaluation of their resources. It is impossible to think that the traditionally poor countries are prospering at the expense of the rich countries. That would be tantamount to saying that a plutocracy of the poor was coming into being.
144.	The oil-producing countries are being accused of being the cause of the present economic imbalance, but the fact that the incidence of increased oil prices in the inflationary process is insignificant when compared to other inflationary prices which pre-dated the rise in the price of oil is overlooked.
145.	During the years when oil prices were kept artificially low, the inflationary process continued to intensify. Inflation had been in evidence in previous years, while it was in the last two years that the oil- producing countries decided to increase their prices.
146.	The changes which have occurred during the past two years pose unprecedented international problems, especially for the developing countries. It is assumed that the current account deficit of these countries might rise from $10,000 million in 1973 to over $30,000 million in 1975. Less than one third of that deficit can be attributed to oil prices. The remaining two thirds is the result of increased prices of manufactured goods and of food and the deterioration in the prices of products exported by the developing countries.
147.	The members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries [OPEC] are aware of their international responsibility. The Conference of Sovereigns and Heads of State of the Member Countries of OPEC, held at Algiers in March 1975, is proof of their maturity and of a highly developed sense of international co-operation. OPEC is not an aggressive group intent on taking decisions against the industrial nations; it is a serious, thoughtful organization which in no way wants to assume irresponsible attitudes. One of the absurdities of the present economic order is the dichotomy which has been created between producers and consumers. In the world today we are all producers and we are all consumers.
148.	Today every country, large or small, has an international responsibility. This is one of the most significant changes in the present political order of the world. The nation which I represent is fully conscious of this fact.
149.	The President of Venezuela has proposed to other member nations of OPEC the setting up of a fund of between $1,500 million and $2,000 million for the non-imbursable financing of the increase in the price of oil resulting from the adjustment of prices, for the benefit of third-world countries which are not oil producers.
150.	The basic problem of the current economic order is to provide stability for the development plans of the third-world countries, which have been hardest hit by inflation, deterioration in export prices and monetary upheavals. It is to be hoped that the forthcoming UNCTAD meeting will represent an important advance toward this objective, Poverty is an accusation against the entire present historical order.
151.	The problem would be simplified if we quickly took concrete steps to create certain systems which, like the Agriculture Development Fund, established balances.
152.	It would be, to say the least, arbitrary to imagine that responsibility lies exclusively with the oil-producing nations. That would mean absolving the great industrial nations from their international responsibilities and would also be contrary to the fundamental concept that in a world of increasing interdependence, responsibilities are also interdependent.
153.	For Venezuela, the policy of defending natural resources is continuous and traditional, not only as a co-founder of OPEC, but also in carrying out important internal decisions. Recently, we have adopted two historic decisions: the nationalization of iron and the nationalization of oil.
154.	Both decisions are the result of a national consensus which was arrived at within the pluralistic democratic society which is the essence of the Venezuelan political system. By enactment of pre-existing laws and regulations resulting from the free debate of public opinion and political parties, as well as from previously known programs, we have nationalized iron and oil. Therefore, this is not an international conspiracy against any country, nor against any specific interests; it is the affirmation of a free and sovereign people, conscious of the importance of its resources and conscious, too, of its will to administer them without any dependence or subordination.
155.	This is part of an even broader policy to which the President of Venezuela is committed, namely that of developing ecological balance and all non-renewable natural resources. The Government of my country has fully identified itself with the goals of protecting the waters of rivers, lakes and oceans, the flora and the fauna from depredation and aggression. We are also aware that a policy of this type must be carried out on a world-wide level. That is why we believe in the increasingly important role which the United Nations can play in this respect over the coming 25 years.
156.	We must defend the planet for all mankind and we must do so in universal democratic terms, so that the resources of nature may benefit the vast majorities and not be for the exclusive benefit of a few.
157.	At this new session of the Assembly, we face the imperative necessity to remember that it is urgent to establish a climate of international trust. The Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe, held recently at Helsinki, and other events, have given rise to optimism. In connexion with that Conference the attempt by industrial countries better to appreciate the development problems of the third world must not be overlooked. Understanding must be followed by action. We think that the future conference to be held in Paris will provide an opportunity for a useful dialog to define world international co-operation in specific terms. Most of what was said in the past serves no useful purpose today. We must find a new conceptual order to express the new political and economic system. dialog between industrialized countries and the developing countries is possible.
158.	There exist alternatives for understanding and compromise. It will be necessary to strengthen the credibility of agreements and the good faith of arrangements. It is not possible to continue to deal with oversimplifications. We must place problems within a rational context.
159.	Raw materials, development, oil prices, the cost of manufactured goods and food are not part of separate constellations. They are all integrated into a vital process of reciprocal inter-connexions and clear ties.
160.	In other words, in this Assembly new types of solidarity have been ushered in. My country had a concept of international solidarity from the time it emerged as an independent nation during the first quarter of the nineteenth century. Oil was unknown to us then; we were simply a small agricultural society on the northern shores of South America. But even at that early stage Simon Bolivar convened a Congress in Panama to define the strategy for continental unity. Long before we became an oil-producing nation, we were a Latin American nation. Now we are fully convinced that to be identified with Latin America alone is not enough; we must, on the contrary, think and act within a broader framework: that of solidarity with the countries of the third world,
161.	Beyond these alliances, Venezuela believes in its role as a participant in any and all initiatives aimed at fostering the mechanisms of world co-operation, which means simply that we are identified with the fate and future of mankind. In this effort, we recognize no difference between great or small, capitalist or socialist, industrialized or non-industrialized nations, whether north, south, east or west.
162.	As an oil-producing country Venezuela has, with modesty but good will, defined several programs for international co-operation. With Central America, with nations of the Caribbean and other countries in the southern part of our continent, we have reached important agreements. Venezuela has pledged funds for international co-operation to a total of $2,724 million, which amounts to more than 8 per cent of our gross national product, thus largely exceeding the quota fixed by the United Nations for the developed countries. We realize, however, that isolated initiatives are not in themselves sufficient, and that is why, with other oil-producing and non-oil-producing nations, we are developing a broader plan to contribute to international development.
163.	In accord with the resolution unanimously adopted during the seventh special session of the General Assembly, which constitutes a substantive change in international economic relations, we must all act with the necessary loyalty to ensure that those principles will dispel doubts and suspicions and effectively contribute to the creation of an atmosphere favorable to the holding of concrete negotiations. We have agreed that we must not return to the past and therefore any manifestations of dissent from the agreements adopted here may cast serious doubts on the sincerity of the consensus and the flexibility demonstrated so far.
164.	The forthcoming Paris Conference will meet under the auspices of the agreements adopted here. In our opinion, it will be the first negotiation with a historical perspective between industrial countries and developing countries, whose points of view concerning a global approach to world economic problems were fortunately accepted. We attach paramount importance to that Conference. Interdependence in the future, the soundness and stability of the world economy and of the new international economic order will depend on the wisdom, lucidity and understanding of the negotiators, as well as on the political will which is demonstrated.
165.	Our active participation in the struggle against colonialism and racial discrimination is already well known and forms part of the history of these 30 years of our Organization.
166.	In welcoming today three new Member States, the Republics of Mozambique, Cape Verde and Sao Tome and Principe, thus adding independent countries to the United Nations, we cannot but rejoice to see the inevitable end of the colonial era in the world.
167.	It is with equal pleasure that we greet the independence of Suriname, a Latin American country which is a brotherly neighbor of Venezuela and which we hope will join us in the United Nations during this session.
168.	It is not only at the economic level that we express solidarity, but also in terms of global and regional politics. We seek a peaceful and lasting settlement in the Middle East which will solve the problem of the Palestinian people. We look forward to an equitable solution in Cyprus, Rhodesia and Namibia, and we hope, with most of the peoples of the world, for the eradication of apartheid from South Africa. A similar sense of international solidarity leads us to hope for a prompt political solution in the Korean peninsula which may end for ever the unrest and disturbance in that area.
169.	In Latin America, Bolivia and Panama have our complete solidarity. We hope that the problem of landlocked Bolivia, which was explained at this meeting by President Banzer of Bolivia, will be solved harmoniously by the countries concerned, and we are pleased at the progress which he announced. We also hope that the matter of the Panama Canal will not become a source of growing irritation between Latin America and the United States. We look forward to practical solutions in those two cases and to rational and balanced formulas. The case of Panama affects the dignity for all the countries of Latin America.
170.	International solidarity is inconceivable without a world disarmament system and without the extension of denuclearized zones, concerning which Latin America sets a precedent. The peaceful use of nuclear energy is an opportunity not to be wasted, and my country is interested in increasing the possibilities of its development. But we do not forget that the provisions of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons [resolution 2373 (XXII), annex] must be made more comprehensive. Nuclear energy should be used under stable, assured conditions, and any prohibition tending to avoid abuse will be welcome. Means of mass destruction must be subject to controls to protect mankind from the risk they represent. The United Nations must tackle boldly one of the most dramatic problems that can affect the international rule of law: the nuclear threat. Dire warnings to that effect have been heard at this Assembly. The use of nuclear energy should be subject to reliable control so that its peaceful use may not unexpectedly be turned into an instrument of aggression. The strength of this Organization depends largely in the future on the means of inspection and control that may be developed to deal with the nuclear threat. In this matter no warnings or scruples could ever be exaggerated. Nuclear non-proliferation, like disarmament, must become an accomplished fact. It is also necessary, as a practical formula, to study the relationship that should exist between the gross national product of a country and its expenditure on weapons.
171.	Disarmament will not create Utopia, but it presupposes the development of a policy and of action.
172.	The maturity being shown by the international community is undeniable. That is why it is important for each country to be convinced that regional conflicts are factors not only of local disturbance, but of contagious, world-wide unrest. Fortunately, it is now possible to envisage world peace in practical terms. Peace is no longer merely an abstract ideal, an illusion or a hope, but a necessity originating largely in the forces of development which the world society has created in recent years. International confrontation increasingly becomes so costly a risk that it is possible and more realistic to explore and exploit the definite alternative of peaceful coexistence. Peace is no longer an ideal, it is a real political possibility.
173 In the years to come I think we should be engaged in accelerating in the world the processes of political democratization and of greater participation by citizens in the decisions of society. Similarly, efforts must be intensified to assert the value and dignity of human existence. In this respect the United Nations has achieved much undeniable progress, but a great deal remains to be done. Venezuela, as a democratic nation, is fully aware of the importance of these values.
174.	Similarly, we must think of the action necessary to control the phenomena of violence of any and all types, and all their manifestations. Some of these phenomena originate in economic imbalances or centuries-old injustices. But political solutions will be necessary, and the time is right to devise them and plan for them.
175.	All this, in short, leads us to affirm that the condition of mankind and of the ethical forces of individual and social conduct will prevail over the distortions and mutilations that industrialized civilization has developed. World order can be based on mankind, and mankind alone. The trust, hope and optimism we invest in the United Nations therefore raise these essential questions: Can we be optimistic about the future of mankind, or is it necessary to remain motionless? Can the present be changed? Is it possible to raise the idea of justice in political and ethical terms? And do we or do we not accept the fact that the condition of mankind is based on freedom and the free exercise of man's creative powers? To that end we must rescue the irreplaceable principle of international honesty from wreck.
176.	Venezuela is a country which believes in and identifies with the fundamental values of human life, democracy and freedom, and we wish to reaffirm that in international controversies or dissension we are willing to listen and to understand. As a nation of Latin America and of the third world, we hope that our motives will be understood; that our dignity will be valued, for it is not incompatible with the dignity of any other country; and that our word will be respected as an expression of good faith.
177.	There are two ways to conclude an address to the General Assembly: with pessimism or with optimism. I conclude my statement with optimism.


===== Session 31 - 1976 =====
I am pleased to greet and to congratulate Mr. Amerasinghe on his election and to wish him every success in the deliberations over which he will preside. I should also like to call to mind the excellent presidency of Mr. Gaston Thorn, who very remarkably guided the work of the last session of the General Assembly.
86.	A new country-the Republic of Seychelles-has joined the United Nations. With it, the number of States
Members of the Organization has risen to 145, which is not a mere numerical fact but also reveals essential qualitative changes in the world political order. The sum of countries which make up the United Nations in the post-colonial era implies adjustments, reviews and corrections, not only as regards the structure and functioning of the Organization, but also as regards the basic direction of some of its fundamental activities.
87.	Decolonization is one of the most important achievements of the United Nations; it likewise shows how the context of political and legal relations created by the United Nations has a sound effect on international relations and is an unquestionable advance of culture and civilization.
88.	I should like to say to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, that I have read and studied his annual report on the work of the Organization [A/3111 and Add.l] with keen interest. This report reveals not only his personal concern and the loftiness of his purpose, but, furthermore, points of view which are essential to the future destiny of the Organization.
89.	The year that has elapsed since the last session of the General Assembly has been a period of hope and of frustration. Both the seventh special session in 1975 and the regular session of the General Assembly which followed it have required that attention be paid to matters which are indispensable to the stability of the international system and to the future of the world.
90.	Some of the difficulties which arose during the last year have put to the test the intentions of States and Governments. There is impatience and expectation with regard to the decisions which must be taken, as well as with regard to the application of those already adopted. One of them is international detente. There are skeptical and pessimistic attitudes throughout the world which see detente as a remote possibility that is difficult to attain. Efforts for peace and purposes which inspire detente cannot be weakened or abandoned. In the face of every difficulty which arises hope and will must be held high so as not to alter the essential tendency which inspires.this policy of detente. However, this must not be designed solely for the benefit of relations between the Powers or super¬Powers; it must also spread its effects to all countries. Detente cannot be reserved exclusively for prevailing relations of power and force; it must benefit poor countries and favor the new developing nations which have no reason to suffer the heritage of any conflict but can and must exercise fully their right to join a peaceful world based on the use of reason and serious thinking.
91.	It should be pointed out that East-West relations, which oversimplified world politics for years, have changed the points of reference which prevailed after the Second World War. The country which I represent here is one of those which realize and believe that international relations must be placed above ideological positions in order to give impetus and concrete movement to purposes and projects for co-operation and specific understandings.
92.	East-West relations must develop further in years to come. This will be the best proof of psychological disarmament, which is just as important as military disarmament, and is intended to maintain among peoples and nations a positive and growing flow of links and exchanges.
93.	North-South relations require priority attention. There has been a widening of the areas of understanding between the industrial and non-industrial countries; nevertheless it is still not possible to say that concrete results have been achieved. It will be basic and fundamental for the dialog between the industrial and non-industrial countries to be held, not only in good faith by the participants, but with a willingness to find positive formulas which will gradually solve short-term, medium-term and long-term problems.
94.	Some areas have been singled out for the negotiation of consensus and this, of course, is a process which must be carried out with a view to applying and implementing the formulas arrived at. The North-South dialog must find tangible form in the adoption of a program which will represent a real and positive advance in international economic co-operation. The second phase of the Paris Conference on International Economic Co-operation, which is action-oriented, could be an important step in this direction. It must be proved that the political will is there, beyond doubt, to set a new direction for international economic relations. This is a question of moving forward and promoting a change in course, and not of maintaining the previous status, which has proved to be insufficient and incapable of overcoming present injustices and imbalances.
95.	Human rights are undergoing one of the most severe and impressive crises in history. There is a growing trend to ignore, to fail to respect or to neglect the philosophy and practice of human rights. As the representative of a democratic country, which has assimilated the basic values of culture and civilization, I should like to express the concern of the Government and of my country to contribute, within the United Nations, to formulating practical means to define, defend and guarantee the full exercise of human rights in all parts of the world.
96.	One of the most important tests this Organization will have to face in the years to come is in defense of human rights. We must reject the idea that human rights can be entrusted exclusively to the circumstantial, temporary and momentary political interests of a Government or nation. The global meaning which human relations are acquiring, the increasingly more universal perspective in which we, the men of this generation, move, requires that human rights be world-wide in scope and their defense fully supported by international institutions. To make a more effective adjustment between the scope of national and international jurisdiction is a task which commits the United Nations to preferential attention. Reconciling international and national jurisdiction implies risks and requites permanent as well as effective institutional procedures.
97.	Nor can we continue to accept that the defense of human rights only applies in the event of a given political interest. No matter what the regime, the ideological inspiration or the social tendency of a Government, it would not be possible to point out something as a violation in one country when it is accepted in another. In this case, it becomes necessary to invoke the basic principle of good faith in international relations. At the Conference on Co-operation and Security in Europe, held at Helsinki, the need for good faith in international relations was specially stressed. Without it no significant step forward can be taken on the major issues of today.
98.	Another fundamental subject which must be borne in mind at this time is the fight against corruption. The world order must provide rules of conduct accepted by all States so as to prevent a rise in international corruption. Corruption is eroding international relations, with negative effects on both morality and economic affairs. It happens in the large industrial countries as well as in small nations, with both internal and external effects, and a serious effort must be made to fight it at both levels.
99.	In the final analysis it was an ethical inspiration which brought the United Nations into being. Corruption is fed by anti-ethical forces, which are more of a threat to culture and civilization than the firing capability of many weapons of aggression.
100.	It must be possible to arrive at effective measures to fight corruption in a short time. But what matters now is to start, to set points of departure and to agree on action by consultations among States and initiatives taken within the United Nations directed towards this end.
101.	The post-colonial era is characterized by the emergence of new political and geopolitical factors with, in turn, many important effects and consequences. It may be that some of the disarray the United Nations is now experiencing is due to the fact that the Organization tailored its programs to a different set of realities. In the last 30 years the international political order has become broadened, relations have expanded, and the world political space has grown larger.
102.	The United Nations must have an immediate response to the growth of world political space. That is the question. The period we are living in could be interpreted as a moment of transition between the old order and the new.
103.	We live in a time when every nation must know exactly what it is after, what it can and what it cannot do. A shrewd sense of realities and of limitations is essential to provide an atmosphere of constructive moderation for United Nations activities and for the dynamism of inter-national relations.
104.	The present international economic order not infrequently lacks an over-all view of various subjects. Over-simplification of some criteria precludes a study of facts and situations within their natural contexts. No progress can be made within the world economic balance unless the respective contexts are used with wisdom and in proportion. This over-all view is the framework within which a productive confrontation of ideas intended to seek results and offer solutions can be developed.
105.	The United Nations setting is the natural and historic environment in which dialog and consultations among peoples and Governments should take place.
106.	Separating short-term from long-term solutions, and possibilities within reach from distant prospects, is part of a methodology of means directed towards a rational and pragmatic context. This action, with the impetus of systematic efforts, should lead along a secure and firm road to attainable goals.
107.	Some matters upset the international environment. The question of Panama, the Middle East conflict and the problems of southern Africa are facts which must be approached with growing boldness and decisiveness. Namibia, Southern Rhodesia and the policy of apartheid of the Government of South Africa require compliance with relevant United Nations resolutions. In all these conflicts, it is the hope of my country that, with greater boldness and decisiveness, it will be possible to arrive at early solutions, just formulations and balanced responses.
108.	As a Latin American cannot fail to mention the commemoration of the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the Amphictyonic Congress of Panama, which met on the initiative of Simon Bolivar in 1826. This Congress was an historic event which for the first time collectively defined the political strategy of the Latin American continent. It not only sought a hemispheric context for Latin American relations and international strategy but also aspired to much more. It was an inspiration intended, among other things, to strengthen the then nascent ideas of freedom and democratic principles. Political values of the utmost importance were expressed at the Panama Congress. Simon Bolivar sought a new balance in the international context of the epoch and aspired to dealing with many problems in their entirety and jointly.
109.	Today there are new nations, as there were in 1826. Then, with a universal vision, we were readying ourselves to enter history. The same is happening today. New factors represented by the third-world nations are claiming their share of and presence in the world political space. This is why the Panama Congress is an important lesson.
110.	At present there is some defeatism and frustration in the process of the negotiations for disarmament. One cannot be unaware that it is a singularly delicate, complex and difficult subject. But there can be no doubt that this problem is vital and cannot be abandoned. We, the developing nations, stand to lose a great deal because of the increasingly definite tendency to augment world weapons. It is not only the great Powers which could be affected by the arms race. The battlefield in our days is not on the soil of the developed countries. The nature and scope of conflicts have changed substantially. This is why disarmament is not a conventional subject which can be dealt with separately, a subject of interest to some countries and not to others. Not only is it the corner-stone of world order but the question of security is an integral one affecting the entire planet. It would be impossible to conceive of conflicts or confrontations which are not linked to areas elsewhere. World stability is also an integral concept. Disrupting factors can exercise influence and have effects on the most remote sites from the place of origin. We must learn the lesson early: limited conflicts become less and less limited; they inevitably tend to become confrontations at different latitudes.
111.	Arms expenditures must be looked at carefully. There tends to be a growing disproportion between the means of a country and its outlays for weapons. In this respect all I need to do is to recall the dramatic figures quoted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in the introduction to his annual report on the work of the Organization. He said:
"... while the world spends approximately $300 billion a year on armaments, the net flow of official development assistance amounts to some $15 billion a year. Resources devoted to the arms race since the end of the Second World War have exceeded $6,000 billion, which is roughly equivalent to the 1976 gross national product of the entire world." [A/31/1/Add. 1, sect. V.J
112.	My country's Government is concerned at the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The existing treaties have not been fully subscribed to and it is disturbing to note that the provision of nuclear installations for peaceful purposes can be converted to the use of nuclear energy for war purposes. It is unacceptable that such situations should be beyond the reach of international control; they must not spread the risks which now tend to proliferate.
113.	Defeatism and, to a lesser degree, the skepticism which may now be felt in world public opinion regarding United Nations action, are caused in part by the growing violence which is developing. Growing violence at the domestic level of States can be fought only with inter-national measures. Crime has become organized on so vast a scale that it is inconceivable to think that exclusively national provisions, which end at the domestic level, can be enough. International measures will of necessity have to be adopted against organized crime. A singular form of this violence is the kidnapping of, and threats against, persons. The Presidents of Venezuela and Colombia emphasized at a meeting held at the end of last year the importance that United Nations action would have in this respect. The subject has been discussed for some time in the Organization. But now the time has come not to postpone further a program of concrete realizations which will enable joint action to be taken that will paralyze or demolish the rise of violence. Private action by Governments, co-ordination and intercommunication among States could go a long way in this direction. However, beyond ail that, what is required is an international conviction that violence does not deserve respect, regardless of its sponsorship or its inspiration-a conviction that no way of death represents life; that it is untrue that freedom is won by death; it is won with life. World insecurity must not increase and there is no country, whatever its political or social system, which is free from this risk.
114.	It is only the international community which can combat violence. It is time, therefore, to know and to be convinced that the global nature of certain problems means that it is only the international community which can deal with them. And that is why my country and Government condemn any form of violence, whoever inspires it and from whatever source it comes.
115.	Violence can be fought if all States begin by adopting the necessary internal measures. In that respect, it is inadmissible for peoples to be denied the legitimate right to self-determination and independence, as well as the enjoyment of fundamental rights and freedoms. A threat or act of violence which endangers innocent human lives, or causes the loss of human life, jeopardizes fundamental freedoms and is an offense to the dignity of every nation. Physical injury, assassination, torture, the taking of hostages: all these are acts incompatible with the legitimacy of the international order.
116.	Perhaps the world has been too indifferent to the means of the international community. We must start with the conviction that the United Nations constitutes a viable organization that is impossible without the faith in the prospects and means of the international community which the United Nations represents.
117.	The effectiveness of the United Nations depends, not on practical deeds alone, but also on confidence in man's possibilities. There will be measures which can be implemented within a short time; others will take more time. But here, as in other matters,-what is important is to begin. The question of violence is not a theological or a metaphysical problem. It is a complex question, built up by diverse inducements and sheltered in distinct and heterogeneous justifications assuming actions which, however, can be met with other actions. Violence cannot be curbed unless there is co-ordination among States.
118.	The attitude and the firmness of the United Nations in the coming years will decide its destiny. The arithmetical growth of this Organization is of extraordinary significance. As I said earlier, it is not merely a question of an increase in the numerical volume of the Organization's Members and components. It is something more than that. It is a qualitative transformation of the world order. The political space of the world has grown. That is an extraordinary historical circumstance which should be taken advantage of, in a positive sense, to build and not to destroy, to make life on our planet fuller and more complete, to make its resources more usable.
119.	Outer-space technology is making ancient flights of fancy or legendary illusions likely to become real. In practical terms interplanetary flights are opening prospects whose consequences cannot be assessed at the moment. However, there is no doubt that, whatever may be the characteristics of outer space, it offers alternatives of various kinds which will mean unifying concepts, principles and rules of conduct on a planetary scale.
120.	That fact gives the measure of the worth, the importance of the United Nations, because this planet must in the future conduct itself as one unit, conscious of its position in space but as yet unable to perceive the choices which this situation may offer.
121.	Everything implies the improvement of the United Nations. Yet this is not a rhetorical question. To consider it in whimsical and superficial terms would not solve any problems; rather, it would aggravate all of them. Changes in the structure of the Organization, without any knowledge of where they would lead, would be more hazardous. The Organization must acquire the face of an adult, showing the level of maturity of the international order.
122.	That leads me to another problem of paramount importance: the credibility of the United Nations. It is in an atmosphere of uplifting thought and lofty serenity that complaints ought to be aired, just as opposite points of view ought to be set forth in a climate of constructive and edifying moderation, however firm and vigorous the positions taken might be.
123.	We would not get very far if the resolutions adopted were left unimplemented, to become part of a lengthy compendium of frustrations which, far from clearing the horizon, would disturb and darken it. United Nations resolutions which are not complied with will destroy the Organization's credibility, its seriousness and its future.
124.	The international order is inseparable from an ethical system of conduct. And it will be necessary to insist on this time and time again because we would otherwise forget that life among nations, like life among men, is nourished by one s values. Practical action is also sustained by values. It is only in so far as, and to the extent that, the United Nations acts in accord with the basic values of human conduct that its strength and respectability will increase.
125.	Lately the discussion of and quest for peaceful ways of coexistence have brought about a sounder inter-relationship between the West and the East. The ideological dispute, without having lost its original basic importance, has allowed for a more rational exchange of goods, services and technology, which can bring about an atmosphere propitious to a more sound understanding in international relations. The legitimacy of East-West relations is perhaps no longer in doubt in any intellectually and politically responsible sector. This seems to be the final cancellation of the simplistic slogans prevailing at the time of the cold war, which reduced the world to a futile and permanent confrontation between models much inclined to abstraction and ambiguity. The cold war was identified with elementary motivations and a priori judgments, all of which narrowed prospects and fields of vision and reduced opportunities for reciprocal understanding.
126.	The new East-West relationship, now expressed in terms of detente, with sights set more concretely on peace, offers greater opportunities, not only for the legitimacy of the international order, but also for the width of the political space of the world.
127.	The stability of the world order, once East-West relations are rationalized, must be completed by having the third world join in.
128.	The historical significance of the generic name "third world" assumes the coming together of countries, societies and nations which are distant and distinct, willing to agree, despite their essential diversity, in seeking a political and historical level which will bring them into the active context of international relations. The world order cannot be governed by a club of countries with economic, military or political power that excludes all others; rather, it must be governed by a total and universal consensus expressed through the United Nations.
129.	It is a mistake to think that the historical prospects of the third world end solely with the attainment of goals to correct economic injustices. There is no doubt that the revision of the international economic order is an initial 56
target in the rectification of the prevailing arrangements. But it would be a grievous error to reduce the question of world balance to simple economic terms. It is not only a matter of the value of natural resources and raw materials. At times there apparently predominates a tendency to consider that the only claim of the developing countries is better prices for their products. That is a basic issue, no doubt, but it is not the only one. There are other still broader issues the implications of which are no less fundamental, and they concern political participation.
130.	As regards economic development, the tendency to attribute value only to primary commodities might lend one to think that the countries of the third world have no right to industrialization and nor should they think of it. According to this line of thinking, the developing countries would at best be the suppliers of the products which industrial societies need to set in motion the world economic machinery. In fact, the value attributed to natural resources is a factor which has its complement in the economic processes inherent in harmonious and integral development, to which all countries are entitled. Simplification of this concept would bring harmful consequences which must be rejected in advance.
131.	As regards the international economic order, there is a question with dramatic implications, How many benefit from the present international economic order? The international economic order has so far been based on the exploitation of the poor nations. The transnational corporations have not offered a valid response to the problems of the developing countries. Seeking a more rational balance in what they can contribute with know-how and technology is an essential task for the immediate future. Prior to that we shall have to know the direction economic activity is to take. Will it be exploitation or development? In terms of exploitation, there can be no international dialog. It is not proof of great skill for prosperity and profits to be based on exploitation. In developmental terms, a dialog is possible, but not without a previous definition of what development is, what it is looking for, what it consists in and who it is to benefit.
132.	The power of poor nations has increased, and their arguments have acquired value not only because they are just but also because they are strong. The experience of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has proved the negotiating power of nations producing natural re-sources. Negotiating power, by nature and by definition, is a peaceful, conciliatory means, one of co-operation.
133.	We, the developing countries, know little about one another, the deficit in world information seriously hampers us, not only because the industrial societies are frequently unaware of our motivations and intentions, but also because the members of the large traditional family which today forms the area of solidarity called the third world lack the means to inform one another and to exchange messages of mutual understanding which would enable them to overcome differences in language, culture or historical background and to place ourselves at a high level of mutual, constant and dynamic communication. Misinformation, regardless of its causes, is harmful to all nations whether developed or undeveloped. World understanding is, inter alia, information.
134.	All this enhances the role and the importance of the United Nations. The distribution of world political power and the management of world wealth are a joint responsibility of all nations. We must hold very strongly to our faith but we must also remain very rational in any opportunities for understanding we may obtain through the United Nations.
135.	Venezuela attaches great importance to the United Nations. As proof of this and of our faith in peace and international understanding, President Carlos Andre's Perez will shortly visit the United Nations. Venezuela is nourished by the values which gave birth to the United Nations. With his visit and his presence in this forum, the President of Venezuela expresses our position as a democratic country with a constructive international policy.
136.	The United Nations faces, among others, a fundamental challenge: the use often resources of the mind. This means that we have not yet exploited in the world that natural force which is not always renewable-to wit, the capacity of human beings to be rational.


===== Session 32 - 1977 =====
﻿97.	 Mr. President, it is particularly pleasant for me, on behalf of the delegation of Venezuela, to extend to you our most cordial congratulations on your election as President of the thirty-second session of the General Assembly. As the first Ambassador of Venezuela to Yugoslavia, 1 know well and have the utmost admiration for the role your country has played in world politics. Hence, my words go beyond mere formality when I state that we are convinced that under your stewardship and guidance the tasks and negotiations of this General Assembly will be particularly fruitful, not only for the vast group of countries
10 Declaration on the Protection of All Persons from Being Subjected to Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment.
we belong to, but for all Member States of the United Nations; in fact, for all the peoples of the world who have placed their faith in it.
98.	At the same time, I should like to express, on behalf of my delegation, our appreciation to Mr. Hamilton Shirley Amerasinghe for his dedication and commitment to the international cause. Having been the Permanent Representative of Venezuela to the United Nations for the last three years, I should also like to extend our greetings to the Secretary-General, Mr. Kurt Waldheim, whose loyalty to the exacting and complex duties of his high post has earned our respect.
99.	I should like to welcome most cordially the countries which have now joined our Organization: the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam and the Republic of Djibouti, the former an ancient people, the latter a new country. Viet Nam gave us lessons of heroism and reaffirmed what history had already taught us: that no force in the world, however mighty, can vanquish those who live or die for the independence and sovereignty of their country. Venezuela had the privilege of participating in the United Nations Mission which observed the process of independence of Djibouti, at the time of the referendum. We are pleased to express our solidarity to that country.
100.	This General Assembly is gathering at a moment of expectations and shadows. To the old conflicts for which the Organization has been trying to find balanced formulas for solutions and settlements, others have been added which are no less serious and grave, presenting a picture of risks and dangers, to which the Secretary-General referred clearly, although soberly, when he pointed out that, without doubt, 1977 had been a year of growing anxiety for the international community.
101.	In the face of political tensions, whether ancient or not, the economic and social problems of the third world become more serious from day to day. Yet, we come to this session of the General Assembly convinced that dialogue and tenacity in negotiations are the only means to attain the solutions we seek.
102.	This Session of the General Assembly will have among the most important items on its agenda the continuation of the North-South dialogue. The United Nations is the most appropriate framework for these negotiations since the problems raised are of direct concern to all our peoples. The results of the Conference on International Economic Co-operation have already been reviewed here and will continue to be the subject of our debates. We are certain that the negotiators in Paris did not spend their time in vain. Today, the conviction is gaining ground that the challenge mankind faces must be met in accordance with the terms and objectives stated by the third world.
103.	We, the developing countries, may have a variety of interests, but we do have essentially common objectives. In this fundamental unity lies the negotiating power of the third world; co-operative actions among developing countries strengthen and consolidate it. Such militant solidarity among the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America— which in turn is an important element in enabling us to face the North-South dialogue with greater chances of success- permits our commitment to the principle of collective self-reliance to assume an ever-increasing importance. The efforts of each and every one supplement the efforts of the whole to attain our common objectives.
104.	Despite the gravity of our problems, we have not adopted intransigent positions nor have we. made impossible claims. As the Venezuelan Minister, Mr. Manuel Perez Guerrero said here only a few days ago:  For our part, we are equally determined to pursue international co-operation and to defend our interests.
105.	At the Paris stage of the North-South dialogue, the results obtained were limited in scope, as some far-reaching problems such as the protection of the purchasing power of the export earnings of developing countries and the problem of growing indebtedness, were practically overlooked. The former is basic; the latter is urgent. Our countries cannot forgo the goals of the new international economic order, and we are certain that no one seriously doubts that this is the only course and the only choice open both to the developing countries which demand it and to those societies whose progress and affluence were nourished on injustice and contempt for the rights of others.
106.	There is a definite contrast between the economic and social restrictions imposed on our countries and the uncontrollable, suicidal explosion of military expenditure and the arms race. Upon my appointment by the Secretary-General, I had the honour to participate in the group of consultant experts which brought up to date the report entitled Economic and Social Consequences of the Arms Race and Military Expenditures. The report rightly points out that it is necessary to disclose openly the dangers inherent in a continued arms race, and to dispel the illusion that peace and security can coexist with immense stockpiles of the means of destruction.
107.	This is an objective report. Its conclusions are alarming beyond doubt. The arms race and military expenditures increase or remain at disquieting levels. Over $350 billion are invested every year in the manufacture of and trade in weapons. Scientists by the thousands are devoting their creative talents as well as the prodigious and boundless resources of science to the sole, exclusive purpose of making better weapons, increasing their destructive capability and laying the groundwork for the annihilation of mankind to happen in the shortest possible time. It is no longer enough to stockpile hundreds of thousands of kilos of plutonium in the arsenals of the super-Powers. On the one hand, nuclear physicists intensify the destructive power of weapons; while, on the other hand, certain schools of strategists and political scientists are busy designing the setting for presumed nuclear wars which they call  limited . Would it not be actually absurd to speculate on the possibility of one nuclear Power's agreeing with another on an exercise of limited destruction. And, in any case, if they did agree on this, it is doubtful that it would be within their own borders.
108.	The Secretary-General points out in his annual report on the work of the Organization that every day $900 million are spent for military purposes and he goes on to say:
 In a world where scientific and technological capability is one of the keys to the future, 25 per cent of the world's scientific manpower and 40 per cent of all research and development spending is engaged for military purposes.
Let us reflect on these awesome facts described by the Secretary-General in his report.
109.	As a consequence of this crisis—which reveals very grave symptoms among mankind and in the present-day world-nuclear proliferation has become a definite threat. Without a doubt, it is a threat which can and does arouse the utmost anxiety because it brings into the open the fact that power is contagious for many countries, as is the idea of the false prestige of belonging to the nuclear club.
110.	Venezuela will continue to support the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones and zones of peace so as to give effect to the aspirations of the countries of certain regions of the world and because it is one of the most reliable means to strengthen international peace and security.
111.	It was especially significant for Latin America that the United States signed the Additional Protocol I of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco). We trust that this will serve as an example for those Powers which have not yet adhered to Additional Protocols I and II of the Tlatelolco Treaty, with a view to enhancing the image of our continent as the first denuclearized zone in the world.
112.	The problems of the arms race cannot be detached from the economic and social problems which are the basis of the North-South dialogue. This is also a moral issue to which we cannot be indifferent. Military expenditures and their soaring costs affect and prevent rational agreements in the domain of just solutions. The army of scientists whose talents are used entirely in the service of destruction should have a destiny in accord with the human condition. Hunger and the world food crisis can be adequately surmounted only by means of science and technology. The energy problem, which is rendered more acute by voracious consumption of traditional resources, such as gas and oil, could now have had different options had not research on alternate sources, like solar energy, been held back by the large transnational corporations which for more than a century maintained a monopoly over the traditional sources. As a result of this lack of foresight, all of mankind now faces an uncertain future.
113.	It is only the political decision of states which can halt the uncontrolled race towards world destruction and, especially, the will of the great Powers which, because they possess nuclear weapons, profess to manage the political balance of the world.
114.	Because of the awareness of this danger, and in the hope of achieving tangible results, it was decided to convene a special session of the General Assembly in 1978 devoted to disarmament the success of which will depend on the unanimous effort and the active participation of all States Members of the United Nations.
115.	Since the beginning of the Third Conference on the Law of the Sea at Caracas in 1974, the position of Venezuela regarding the exploitation of the sea-bed has been clear and firm in defence of the basic principles which the countries of the third world have upheld.
116.	We must emphasize two fundamental aspects of this problem which we deem to be of paramount importance in establishing the new international economic order for future generations. In the first place, the regime for exploitation to be adopted, which will regulate the use and benefits of an area corresponding to two thirds of our planet; and, secondly, the institution of a resource policy which would provide the mineral-producing developing countries with effective protection from any adverse economic effects that might follow from an unrestrained exploitation of the sea-bed.
117.	In the Conference on the Law of the Sea we have always supported the establishment of a unitary system for exploiting the resources in the international area of the sea-bed. Our position is based on our acceptance without reservation of the principles of the indivisibility of the area and of the discretionary power of the Authority over its activities, which could be regulated.
118.	Establishing a strong Authority will guarantee that the exploitation of the resources of the area will be for the benefit of the international community.
119.	The indivisibility of the area is a concept which is not subject to negotiation since this represents the effective application of the principle of the common heritage of mankind, the validity of which has been recognized by all countries represented here. The indivisibility of the area in turn conditions the existence of an Authority with broad discretionary powers which, within the framework of the Convention, will enable it to decide on the manner of exploitation and the use and distribution of the resources thus obtained.
120.	Nevertheless, in the spirit of co-operation which has always guided us, we are prepared to take a position which will clear the way for an agreement for the benefit of all mankind.
121.	To this end we have proposed at the Conference on the Law of the Sea that a compromise be adopted between the unitary system of exploitation and what has been called the parallel system, on the understanding that the system to be adopted by way of negotiation be of a temporary character and that all the areas granted under this system automatically revert to the Authority at the end of the period stipulated in the Convention.
122.	The second aspect which disturbs us in connection with the problem of exploiting the sea-bed is that of the countries dependent on the export of minerals. They should not be harmed by this new economic activity.
123.	An irrational and unrestrained exploitation of those immense resources by a restricted number of transnational corporations represents an obvious danger to the export earnings and, therefore, to the development plans, of a considerable number of developing countries. At the Conference of the Law of the Sea a formula has been proposed whereby production in the sea-bed would be regulated so as to be complementary to land-based production. It is not that the third world is opposed to the exploitation of the resources of the sea as the spokesmen of certain industrialized countries repeatedly maintain. The fundamental issue is that the sea-bed should be exploited in an orderly way, without damage to countries whose economies depend to a large degree on minerals or raw materials from the sea-bed, avoiding at all costs the establishment of a monopoly for the exploitation of resources which, ultimately, are the common heritage of mankind, for present and future generations.
124.	Human rights constitute one of the subjects to which our Organization devotes time; much effort and perseverance have been concentrated on them.
125.	Human rights being one of the basic pillars of our international policy, as we reiterated in the joint declaration of the President of Venezuela and the President of the United States, we should like to state now our intention of supporting those initiatives in the field of human rights which tend to strengthen and promote strict surveillance of and compliance with human rights, wherever attempts are made to violate or disregard them. This is why we have sponsored initiatives in this field through our regional forum, by ratifying the American Convention on Human Rights, designed to promote the dignity of the individual throughout the hemisphere.
126.	The human rights issue is gaining momentum, and the participation of the international community in preserving them has become more urgent and indispensable. We believe that human rights extend into the universal ambit. The United Nations Charter is, in this respect, a clear commitment.
127.	One of the contemporary features which most affect essential human rights is the expression of violence in the world, in different ways, such as the kidnapping of persons and hijacking of means of transport, the seizure of hostages and the assault and killing of innocent human beings. These acts are a clear violation of the individual security and the integrity of human beings, as well as of peace among nations.
128.	In this very forum we have warned that, rather than devote ourselves to an exhaustive task of interpreting violence, what is required is to take action. Venezuela has also indicated its criteria in regard to activities to which the term  terrorism  should not be applied. They are those that are part of the liberation struggles now being waged.
 ... violence which takes the form of criminal action can never be a political act. No cause whatsoever, however noble or justified, can mingle with deeds associating or identifying it with manifestations of delinquency or lese humanite.
129.	Venezuela will continue to participate actively in all efforts made here to bring about the prompt drafting and adoption of a set of rules to make the will of the international community effective in eliminating the scourge of violence and, as stated by the President of Venezuela in this same forum last year, to fulfil the wish for a coherent international response capable or Facing the scourge in rational terms.
130.	When mention is made of the human rights question, we must all, as a matter of course, think of Africa and, in particular, of the peoples subjected to the apartheid regime. There have been few doctrines in history, without excepting nazism, as -shameful as the one practised by the regimes of South Africa and Rhodesia, which the former extends to and imposes on the Territory of Namibia. This year Venezuela attended the Maputo International Conference in Support of the Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia and the Lagos World Conference for Action against Apartheid. In the Security Council we have supported and will always resolutely support the sanctions upon the illegal Rhodesian regime that are necessary to clear the way for majority rule, and we shall contribute as necessary to ensure that Namibia obtains its independence, in accordance with United Nations decisions. Acting on our deeply-rooted conviction, Venezuela will continue to. condemn the policy of the Pretoria regime. It is this Pretoria regime, which has relied on such ample and exceptional technological co-operation that is now preparing to carry out nuclear tests and explosions and is undoubtedly the central point of the crisis which threatens all of southern Africa.
131.	The immense economic investments of the transnational corporations in that region, which are the subject of an impressive report by the United Nations Centre on Transnational Corporations, '' have without any doubt generated the danger to world peace represented today by the conflict in southern Africa.
132.	As a Latin American and as a Venezuelan, I should like to refer with satisfaction to the recent achievements of the five countries which are members of the Andean Pact: Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela. With the agreement on automotive programming signed in the capital of Ecuador, our countries have taken an extraordinarily significant step towards integration, opening the way to a firm and powerful economic future, capable of generating the balanced development of our peoples and their economies.
133.	The process of economic integration is a political fact which is taking place in Latin America as the only valid option for our peoples. We are convinced that Latin American unity is indispensable, and that is why we are determined to strengthen it. To be sure, the political decision was not a simple matter, as it was not easy to implement Decision 24 of the Cartagena Agreement which drew up rules for foreign capital in the subregion. The agreement on automotive programming was reached after a number of difficulties. These were encouraged from outside, as will be logically understood: the pervasive influence of transnational corporations conspiring against any economic effort which does not comply with their conditions. This proves, once again, how urgent it is to have a code of conduct to regulate the activities of those corporations.
134.	We Venezuelans will make every possible effort to strengthen the Andean Pact and to tighten the links binding our peoples together. This is one of the basic ideas of our international policy. The new economic order will of necessity be tied to experiments such as this, or will build on them.
135.	In other words, we, the countries of the third world, must open up our own ways, and among the possible ones, integration will give us strength in addition to other advantages, because there is strength in being united, and five together carry more weight than five separately, as in the case of the Andean group.
136.	Lastly, on behalf of the President of Venezuela and of our people, I must refer to the new treaties on the Panama Canal signed on 7 September by the Latin American Republic of Panama and the United States of America. During the entire twentieth century the Canal has been a source of differences between our countries and the powerful nation that kept a colonial enclave there, dividing the small isthmus country in two. The new treaties returning to the Republic of Panama its sovereignty over the entire territory of the nation were signed in Washington in the presence and with the support of the peoples of Latin America. President Carlos Andres Perez, in his first message to Venezuelans in March 1974, stated that the problem of the Panama Canal was not only a problem for Panama nor exclusively a Latin American problem, but a problem for all free peoples in the world. And here, before the General Assembly in 1976, he reiterated similar views. Before the Organization of American States, during his visit to the United States the President of Venezuela said:
 Our relations with the United States cannot be good relations unless this problem is satisfactorily solved with full recognition of Panamanian sovereignty .
This long-standing Latin American claim has now been satisfied in the new Treaties. Panama has recovered its sovereignty. There are no Latin Americans nor Latin American countries which did not feel that the Panamanian cause was theirs.
137.	Now the treaties and the fate of relations between the United States and Latin America, as well as harmony and understanding in this part of the world, are in the hands of the Congress of the United States, whose ratification will make the treaties legally valid. We have no doubt that the
18 Agreement on Andean Subregional Integration, signed at Bogota on 26 May 1969.
United States Congress, the source of legal power in this great nation, will ratify these treaties. The nearly 150 countries that constitute the world community will be waiting for the major decision to be taken in Washington.
138.	The deceptive campaign mounted by those who represent the past and those who represent obscure and powerful economic interests to the effect that there is no Panama Canal but a  United States canal in Panama  not only constitutes an attempt to mislead a great people, such as that of the United States, but is also an attempt to offend the entire world community meeting here under the auspices of this General Assembly. Despite this neo-colonial campaign, we Venezuelans are confident that the United States Congress will understand the rights of a small and noble people and will exercise the intelligence and understanding that President Carter exercised when he signed the Treaties.
139.	I conclude by reiterating that the delegation of Venezuela is certain that our debates will be fruitful and that the spirit of co-operation will guide our negotiations. Ever since the founding of the United Nations, my country has been a faithful believer in its principles and has loyally complied with our commitments. Today more than ever, we place our faith in the role of this world Organization.
 

===== Session 33 - 1978 =====
﻿191.	As the representative of a deeply Catholic country I wish to express here before the world community our astonishment and our grief at the death of His Holiness Pope John Paul I. His goodness and generosity of heart had assured us of a pontificate devoted to the humble people of this world, who clamour for their social and human redemption.
192.	Mr. President, Venezuela, a country which admires you, joins all Latin Americans in expressing our justifiable satisfaction at seeing you presiding over our debates. As one of the best biographers of Simon Bolivar and a great historian of the struggles of our people, you will, we know, lend a sympathetic ear to the utterances of the spokesmen of the third world, since we have in you, as President of the General Assembly, someone who understands us, pays heed to us and shares our ideas and concerns. You are an honour to your country, Colombia; you are an honour to Latin America; you are an honour to the General Assembly.
193.	The bleak picture of risks and dangers presented by the world scene a year ago, far from fading, has acquired even more disquieting features since the holding of the last regular session of the General Assembly. By and large, the minimum indispensable conditions which, through tangible advances in matters of common interest, would have enabled us to arrive at encouraging conclusions in relation to the present international situation have not been forthcoming.
194.	The military and economic Powers have not shown the necessary readiness to undertake the important changes which would ensure harmonious coexistence among peoples. Their policies of domination and exploitation, which persistently hinder progress towards more heartening prospects of a better world for the whole of mankind, remain unchanged.
195.	The disappointing results of meetings held in the past year on a number of topics have cast a shadow of gloom over political and economic relations between industrialized and developing countries. Nor can it be said that there has been any improvement in the confidence between North and South.
196.	As political and ideological disputes between the great Powers have become more acute; new hotbeds of armed conflict have emerged in other regions of the world. Contrary to the aspiration of peoples to a world order in which nations, weak and powerful alike, govern their relations, and tackle common problems with the full participation of all, the competition between the great Powers for spheres of influence continues unabated.
197.	In the light of all these facts, which cause us disappointment and anguish, the principles and purposes of the United Nations, which inspire the third world's resolute and unyielding struggle to establish an order of peace and justice -in the international community, acquire greater significance. Venezuela has faith in the United Nations. That faith was reaffirmed by President Carlos Andres Perez's presence in the General Assembly hall in 1976, when he said:
"Latin America, within the third world, understands and accepts that it is in this Organization ... that the weak countries, the small countries, the countries without a history of colonialism and those freed from colonialism can fulfil themselves, give up the passive contemplation of world problems, in the determination to take part in the decisions that now and in the future will determine the course of international justice." 
198.	We believe that we can, within our Organization and under its auspices, bring extreme positions closer together and resolve those conflicts which hinder the attainment of peace and justice. Despite the lack of understanding and the intransigence of a few, we should be able to develop a sense of human solidarity. With tenacity and perseverance we could achieve all of these aims through concerted action in the political, social and economic spheres.
199.	The Secretary-General rightly points out in his report on the work of the Organization that when we consider current world events we see that the United Nations, however imperfect or at times ineffective it may be, has become an increasingly imperative necessity, and that:
"Used properly ... the United Nations can be the instrument for overcoming much of the sense of mistrust and insecurity which makes so many international problems insoluble". [See A/33/1, sect. I.]
200.	It seems to me that as we begin our deliberations this year we should keep in mind one fundamental point. If we transfer our attention for one moment from the realm of contemporary politics to the field of history we shall see that, over and beyond immediate conflicts and problems of greater or lesser gravity, the times we live in are imbued with a sense of renewal and progress. Broadly speaking, since 1945 the world has presented features and. trends comparable to those which characterized Western and central Europe from the end of the fifteenth to the eighteenth century. Like that period in history, ours is an era of transition. Today, as then, man's productive capacity and his mastery over nature are growing at a staggering pace and rapidly changing man's vision of the universe and of his own destiny.
201.	Today, as at the dawn of the modem European era, emerging nations are asserting their sovereignty and opposing traditional imperialist ambitions. New generations, on the strength of intelligence and ability, rise up from the core of the people and challenge the traditional elites founded on inherited privilege. Though initially extreme and dogmatic, innovative ideologies gradually adjust to new realities and coexist constructively with many other schools of thought. Despite many negative reactions, the action of history as a whole creates a world of greater justice and freedom for nations and individuals alike.
202.	Venezuela, as an emerging nation, is basically optimistic, and we believe that the difficulties, struggles and sufferings of the present should be viewed within the optimistic concept of mankind's history.
203.	It is in that spirit that the Government of President Perez has oriented its international policy and has given Venezuela's resolute support to all efforts and actions designed to change the present international order and establish bases for genuine co-operation among all States.
204.	This policy, which reflects an irrevocable determination to fight for international justice, is characterized by Venezuela's militant solidarity with the other countries of the Group of 77, with whose aims and objectives we fully identify ourselves. We are convinced of the effectiveness of and the need for joint action in this age of stubborn opposition to domination and exploitation. Only through solidarity will the countries of the third world achieve their common aspirations of justice and equity.
205.	Ours is a real and effective solidarity, consistent with the deep-rooted democratic feelings of all Venezuelans. We have strengthened that solidarity by our participation in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, an important negotiating instrument which should serve as a stimulus to the developing world to create similar organizations to ensure the legitimate protection of their resources.
206.. We have used the financial revenues produced by our petroleum—a non-renewable resource squandered for many years by the large consumer societies—to promote Venezuela's development and to endow our economy with a sound and firm basis.' But at the same time,.-we have contributed, to the extent of our abilities, to the development of other third-world countries, either through international financial institutions or through different kinds of multilateral and bilateral co-operation programmes. That sincere and open co-operation has had no other purpose than that of expressing our sense of solidarity with those countries.
207.	Our foreign policy is indissolubly linked to our domestic policy. The effective exercise of representative democracy has injected vigour and dynamism into our international policy, which, in turn, has been based on the same principles of justice which have guided and inspired the present Government's actions to ensure, full and sovereign enjoyment of our resources, while promoting the integral development of our country and our people's well-being.
208.	We are, however, well aware of the fact that our countries cannot advance their development programmes until the bases for a new international economic order are established. That new order should enhance the value of our raw materials and our labour, placing them on a footing of equality with the labour, the manufactured goods and the technology of the industrialized countries. It is at the level of international relations that the real battle for our right to development is being waged.
209.	The world economic situation, however, and the state of North-South negotiations are very disquieting. Signs of deterioration have appeared in both fields. As in the case of North-South relations, there is reason to fear that the world economy, rather than overcoming the' present difficulties, may well deteriorate still further. It is illusory to think that merely by recourse to short-term measures the problems besetting the world today can be overcome and the uncertainties and malaise, which are growing constantly more acute, can be dispelled.
210.	What is. happening in the exchange market with the main reserve currency is the most revealing symptom of the profound ills afflicting the world economy. It is no longer a question of identifying the causes of the steadily worsening monetary instability of the last 10 years. What we must do is act with a sense of urgency and tackle the problem at its roots. Attempts have, in fact, been made, by exporting inflation and unemployment, to solve the crisis through a process of adjustments behind the backs and at the expense of the developing countries.
211.	This is happening at a time when there is a growing awareness of the fact that action designed effectively to resolve the problems of the third-world countries, by providing them with greater external purchasing power, is the best way to stimulate demand and, therefore, employment in the industrialized countries. This is also the way to give positive and deliberate impetus to the interdependence which clearly conditions economic relations between States. Until such time as we act in conformity with these postulates, we shall not have begun to break out of the present stagnation.
212.	To achieve this, we must be paid a fair price for our raw materials, and our products should be given better access to the industrialized countries' markets, thus clearing the Way for our own industrialization process, which should benefit from the transfer of technology on reasonable terms. In this connexion, the resumption of the United Nations Negotiating Conference on a Common Fund under the Integrated Programme for Commodities and the conferences on technology are of particular significance.
213.	Notwithstanding the fact that the great majority of Governments of the industrialized countries concur in this analysis of the situation, the North-South dialogue is at a standstill in the main forums. At the beginning of this month of September, the Committee Established under General Assembly Resolution 32/174, was compelled to adjourn its work owing to the refusal of at least one important industrialized country to negotiate in a constructive spirit.
214.	Dialogue for the sake of dialogue is as harmful and frustrating as no dialogue at all. The solidarity evinced by the developing countries in the Committee demonstrated quite clearly that dialogue has a raison d'etre only in so far as real negotiations are carried out and concrete results are achieved. In short, to us dialogue is synonymous with negotiation, and only thus can we organize the interdependence of nations on a just and rational basis. This historic objective, which should be the logical aspiration of all, appears to be belied by the short-term measures that are being taken.
215.	The continuation of this inconsistency can only lead to chaos. We cannot continue to take as a pretext for not changing existing structures the fact that the economic situation is unfavourable. Would it be sensible to think that the developing countries will stand idly by and let the industrialized countries settle as they wish the problems that affect us as much as they affect them? Or has the world economic situation deteriorated to such a point that a concerted solution by the international community is no longer possible and each country must fend for itself? It is reasonable to believe that we have reached such a point.
216.	Nor can we allow ourselves to be carried away by futuristic speculations made by the most sophisticated computers. The creativity of the human mind has not been used in a complete and consistent manner. We need proof of leadership, that is to say, of vision and courage. We need full participation by all interests within countries and among countries.
217.	On balance, there has been no progress towards the goals of the new international economic order. Sometimes we have the impression that there still prevails among some Governments the idea that the old order is favourable to the industrialized countries while the new order would be detrimental to them. In truth, the old order cannot be salvaged, nor is it possible to build .a new order that is not based on the interests of every one of the countries belonging to the international community. Furthermore, it would appear to be only natural that it should be those who are most injured by the existing situation that should derive the most advantages from a change to a new order and therefore should most strongly advocate its coming into being.
218.	The Government of Venezuela has always followed with the greatest interest the work of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and has done everything it could to contribute to the success of the deliberations of that Conference.
219.	We believe that progress has been made in the furtherance of the mandate given to the Conference by the General Assembly. Indeed, many of the articles of the integrated informal negotiating text  have the support of a large majority. However, there still remain some areas of disagreement which have been and should continue to be the subject of negotiation.
220.	We view with the utmost concern the intention of the United States and other industrialized States to take unilateral measures with respect to the international zone of the sea-bed and its resources. We believe that we have moved forward in our • negotiations and that unilateral measures would definitely affect any future understanding.
221.	It is obvious that that Conference has entered a very delicate phase of its work and that there must be careful planning of its future work so as to prevent stagnation, which might be discouraging and even jeopardize the results achieved so far. Accordingly we have supported the recommendation that the goal of the next session of the Conference, which will be its eighth, to be held in March and April 1979, should be the conclusion of informal negotiations and the revision and formal adoption of a text to be used as an official draft convention; and that, if that is done, another session should be held next year so as to consider, in accordance with the rules of procedure, this draft convention and any formal amendments which may be submitted by States participating in the Conference. If these objectives are attained, the Conference could meet in Caracas to conclude its work on an appropriate date in 1980.
222.	The tenth special session of the General Assembly, devoted to disarmament, was of particular importance because it was the first session exclusively devoted to that subject. However, it was not free from contradictions and paradoxes such as have characterized all meetings on disarmament. The compromise Final Document [resolution S-10/2] which was adopted after arduous consultations, and in regard to which several countries made reservations, does not reflect the aspirations of the vast majority of States. Once again there was clear evidence of the reluctance of the nuclear Powers to give even an indication of their readiness to pronounce themselves without reservation in favour of specific and effective disarmament measures in the nuclear field. Clearly, the great Powers, which are permanently in dispute because of strategic rivalries and competition for domination, united on that occasion, as they always do in disarmament forums, to torpedo any initiative which might even remotely imply a commitment to act resolutely in favour of nuclear disarmament.
223.	On the other hand, while the General Assembly was meeting in New York, in Washington the leaders of States members of a military alliance were meeting with the intention of strengthening their armed forces in Europe because another alliance had weapon superiority there. Later we witnessed a parade of those same leaders in the United Nations speaking about "disarmament" in the general debate. Situations such as these created an atmosphere which further diminished any hope of making progress in the Assembly's efforts.
224.	Although disarmament may seem to be a quixotic undertaking, we cannot permit ourselves to be overcome by scepticism and discouragement. We would not wish to abandon the hope that, before it is tragically too late, common sense and good judgement will prevail among the nuclear Powers and that they will correct the course they have been irrationally following so far. Here I wish to reiterate Venezuela's willingness to participate actively in every multilateral forum where disarmament matters are discussed, it is in this spirit and with this determination that we shall act in the new disarmament negotiating body.
225.	As a developing country of the third world, we are also concerned over the proliferation of conventional weapons, which unjustifiably diverts vital resources from development and removes opportunities for people to live lives of dignity in keeping with their right to economic and social well-being. This has been a major concern of my Government, and we have advocated the adoption of measures to achieve an arms limitation in Latin America.
226.	We must strive to attain that objective, not only in order to devote more resources to the development of our peoples, but also to put an end to the lucrative profits extracted by arms dealers, who do not hesitate to foster conflicts and disputes among nations.
227.	On the initiative of Venezuela, the Foreign Ministers of eight Latin American countries ratified the Declaration of Ayacucho on 22 June this year.'3 We reaffirmed the principles of the Declaration regarding arms limitations and the need to redouble our efforts to bring about conditions conducive to the effective limitation of weapons in Latin America. A few weeks ago 20 countries, including my own, attended an informal meeting on conventional weapons in Mexico. A significant aspect of that meeting was the general recognition of the desirability of establishing a system of consultation among the Latin American countries to co-ordinate initiatives which might facilitate the achievement of tangible results in arms limitation. We shall continue to explore the best way of carrying out ideas such as this one. It is to be hoped that all the Latin American countries will participate in such a dialogue, since only the assistance and effective support of all can ensure effective results. We hope that similar initiatives will be taken also in other regions of the world.
228.	One of the outstanding characteristics of our time is the defence and promotion of human rights, their recognition and their full exercise. The United Nations came into being among the embers of the world struggle against Nazi fascism and all it represented: the violation of political freedoms and economic and social rights, racism, intolerance and incitement to hatred among peoples. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man were adopted 30 years ago. We cannot believe that those texts are a dead letter. The basis of Venezuela's international policy is the total defence of human rights. Our policy is not one of mere convenience; nor is it a fantasy. Our policy is a reflection of our deep convictions, which we do not apply with discrimination or to serve ulterior purposes.
229.	We resolutely support the peoples of Africa who are struggling for their independence and who for over 500 years have been denied their most elementary rights. We are in favour of a rational solution for Zimbabwe, without any conditions imposed by the racist minority, and we are resolutely in favour of the independence of Namibia and shall accordingly support all United Nations initiatives in that country.
230.	The resistance of South Africa, the centre for every policy of racial discrimination and violence in Africa, and its refusal to implement Security Council resolutions cause us grave concern.
231.	Latin America is now confronted by a serious dilemma: namely, whether or not to remain indifferent in the face of an unprecedented tragic event in its history.
232.	The Nicaraguan drama began to unfold almost half a century ago when Augusto Cesar Sandino died at the hands of the first Somoza. Repression torture and death have for the following 45 years filled the pages of the history of that country, where one Somoza succeeds and inherits from another Somoza.
233.	Beginning with the assassination of Pedro Joaquin Chamorro, a scholar and politician, every inch of Nicaraguan soil has been covered in blood. We in Latin America have never seen anything like it before. The Archbishop of Managua has implored the world to prevent somehow the massacre of his people, to stop the annihilation and genocide of one of the bravest, most admirable and resolute people in Latin America.
234.	An anguished cry for help reaches us from the ruins of the devastated cities of Matagalpa, Leon, Rivas, Esteli, Chinandega and Masaya.
235.	United states television has offered us the most tragic testimony of that civil strife. It has shown us how Catholic churches were destroyed and how old and sacred images were machine-gunned; the press tells us how the dead are buried in the streets or the corpses incinerated and thrown into common graves. And United States television has revealed another no less tragic aspect of those events - the recruitment of mercenaries in Albuquerque, New Mexico, to go and fight in Nicaragua. The fury of destruction unleashed against the defenceless civilian Nicaraguan population, which has taken no part in the fighting or the rebellion, cannot under any circumstances be the work of Nicaraguans. An operation of annihilation is being carried out in Nicaragua and in the name of the Venezuelan people I speak out before this Assembly against those tragic events.
236.	The Venezuelan people have taken the obvious stand, a position of denunciation and close solidarity with the great people of Nicaragua.
237.	As was stated before this Assembly by President Rodrigo Carazo of Costa Rica filth meeting], peace in the region has been and continues to be threatened. While there may be a regional body that could or would decide to look On with indifference, the international community cannot do so. We must help the people of Nicaragua; we must respond to the anguished cries of mothers searching in vain for their sons buried or incinerated where they were shot down. Thousands of Nicaraguans are emigrating from their country to escape death. More than 25,000 have sought asylum in neighbouring countries. We believe that the United Nations has a commitment to those people.
238.	That is the tragedy that has shaken our part of the world. Indifference would make us all liable to condemnation.
239.	The Heads of State of Colombia and Venezuela have addressed themselves, to you, Sir, as President of the General Assembly, denouncing this serious situation. Although the text of their communication is already an official document of this Assembly, I shall conclude my statement by reading out one of its paragraphs:
"In denouncing the tragic and dramatic situation of vast segments of the population of Nicaragua, whose essential rights are being violated, we respect the principle of non-intervention, which is by no means incompatible with the task of internationally safeguarding human rights which the United Nations is required to perform, as is the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, there being no objection to simultaneous action by these two bodies since the United Nations is not required consider the political case submitted to the jurisdiction of the regional organization but to take action in defence of human rights which, as we understand it, is an inescapable obligation of the agencies responsible for ensuring full respect for those rights." [See A/33/275, annex].
 



===== Session 34 - 1979 =====
﻿On behalf of my Government, I extend to the President my most sincere congratulations on the high honour conferred upon him on his election as President of the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly. His personal endowments, his experience, and his important contribution, as head of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, to the policy of decolonization, constitute a guarantee of what we are certain will be his effective contribution in presiding over this session. In action taken for decolonization, Venezuela and the United Republic of Tanzania—represented by the President of the Assembly—have made a constant effort, which causes us to welcome Mr. Salim with great pleasure as leader of this Assembly session.
60.	At the outset, I should also like to greet the President of the last session, our distinguished friend, Indalecio Lievano Aguirre, whom I congratulate for his brilliant performance during the previous session.
61.	We congratulate the Secretary-General, who has excelled in his devotion to the solution of the problems affecting the maintenance of international peace and security.
62.	We also greet the new Members of the United Nations and, in particular, the young Republic of Saint Lucia, to which we are united by geographical and historical ties which are destined to become closer in the future.
63.	I bring sincere greetings from Venezuela to all the peoples of the world represented here.
64.	The Government of President Luis Herrera Campins is formulating its international actions on the basis of a realistic policy founded on principles.
65.	We know, from our own history, the political vicissitudes of the peoples of developing countries. We are striving intensely to set up in our country a participatory democracy, where political freedom, social justice and economic progress will find full expression.
66.	To this end, President Herrera Campins is carrying out a vigorous programme designed to realize in Venezuela the principles of an active State which, in a democratic setting, will promote the pluralistic expression of all the creative forces of mankind's freedom. We also zealously promote respect for human dignity and the institutionalization of spiritual, political and economic freedoms in both internal and external policy. The defence and advancement of these principles are essential corner-stones of a democratic State and are the basic objectives of our international policy; they are already deeply rooted in the way our people feel.
67.	My Government is striving to achieve the ideal of human freedom, of men free from fear and poverty, by creating conditions which will enable each person fully to enjoy all rights in all fields.
68.	I hope to outline this afternoon in specific detail Venezuela's point of view on some of the problems of concern to the international community.
69.	I think it would be appropriate to take up, in the first place, questions pertaining to our region, essentially the Caribbean and Andean region. I shall also refer to matters jeopardizing peace and world security, such as the situation in southern Africa, human rights and the new international economic order. I shall pay particular attention to subjects linked with development and international co-operation.
70.	This international Organization is the expression of social and political forces. Its reality and vigour are obvious. Between the level of the international Organization and that of the Member States there are also regional subsystems and organizations which have become very important and a means for co-operation and for controlling conflicts. The strength of these regional organizations and subsystems contributes in turn to the vitality and strength of the United Nations.
71.	Venezuela, at the regional level, has proposed consistent and outward-looking diplomacy and is prepared to do the same at the world level. Co-operation and the prevention and control of conflicts should be the objectives of this outward-looking diplomacy in an interdependent world.
72.	Latin America must perform the role which traditionally belongs to it in the concert of nations. By seeking a Latin American consensus, without a trace of intolerance or exclusiveness, we shall contribute to the strengthening of the United Nations.
73.	Within a realistic perspective, we cannot overlook the specific and peculiar situation of Central America and the Caribbean, of the Andes region and of the north and the south of the continent.
74.	In Central America and the Caribbean a new vitality has been gathering strength, the evolution of which should guarantee for all the world to see the right of every country, no matter how small or weak, freely to choose its own path to prosperity, free from pressures or attempts to establish hegemony or spheres of influence.
75.	In the area, we wish to see the establishment of regimes which are the true expression of the will of the people and which will advance the social and economic progress of the countries there. For us, the means to the institutionalization of freedom is representative democracy, and we believe that no effort should be spared to permit the necessary transformation to proceed by non-military and peaceful means.
76.	It is our conviction that, for a representative democracy to function, it is necessary to delve into the field of social reforms which will lead to real popular participation. These objectives are shared by the Andean group of countries and by others in the area, we have begun our concerted action and we are determined to develop it with them. With those who do not entirely share these objectives, we wish to seek areas where we are on common ground and to prevent those matters on which we differ from generating tensions or difficulties.
77.	Venezuela is an essentially Caribbean country. We are not indifferent to anything that happens in that area, because therein lies our political and economic security. We have made and shall continue to make major economic efforts to co-operate with the countries of that area. Our financial assistance, in the Caribbean alone, already is in excess of $360 million a year, particularly in the financing of the oil supply to these countries. These figures do not include our contribution to the special fund of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries [OPEC], whose replenishment and subsequent consolidation and expansion Venezuela will seek at the meeting of that organization next December in Caracas.
78.	Venezuela is aware of the role which history expects it to play in the geopolitical sector where it lies, as a consequence of the stability of its democratic regime, its status as an oil-exporting country and its participation in the Andean group.
79.	In the Caribbean, muffled sounds are being heard which seem to augur the emergence of other ideologies that might make sister nations pawns in strategic power-plays, against their will. Venezuela is prepared to promote measures conducive to the political normalization of the area. As already stated, we are convinced that in our foreign policy we must proceed with the utmost realism and must develop with all nations constructive relations on the basis of sincerity, reciprocity and tangible demonstrations of goodwill.
80.	We welcome and support the decolonization process in the Caribbean. We wish to emphasize that our objective is to develop the best relations with the new countries.
81.	For us to have a fruitful dialogue, in our opinion, we must necessarily first achieve Latin American integration. We have left behind us the rather naive illusions which ruled our first attempts at integration, which we imagined could be immediate and general. Nevertheless, today Venezuela is convinced that Latin American integration is feasible provided we act with realism, with respect for the magnitude and complexity of the problems to be surmounted for integration to be achieved; provided that we realize that our people will need to make an effective mental and psychological effort; and provided that this process is approached, in the light of experience, as a concentration of efforts at integration by the various sub regions which make up Latin America.
82	A start has been made on a new phase which I feel is important and beneficial for the Latin American community and for the inter-American system. I am referring to the concerted action by the Andean countries with regard to foreign policy, which was agreed upon by the Presidents of Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela at Cartagena, Colombia, on 28 May of this year. This initiative was taken on a purely experimental basis Having noted the solid progress we had made in our economic integration, we decided to explore the possibilities of acting jointly in the political field, without any formal obligations or commitments.
83	At first sight, it seems surprising that consensus among us should have been reached so easily and naturally on all the matters we have taken up But if we stop to think about it, we shall realize that there is nothing surprising in our coming to the same conclusions, we who share a deep-rooted and sincere faith in the principles which are the foundations of the regional system: Latin American solidarity; our vocation for the effective application of democracy; and our conviction that the primary responsibility of every State is to promote social justice and well-being for all its citizens in freedom and with their participation.
84.	I believe that the initiative I have mentioned contributed to clearing the way for the solution of the conflict in Nicaragua.
85.	I do not claim to draw conclusions from a process which has only just begun; yet I cannot help thinking that, since we have been able to prove that the united voice of five Republics carries far more weight than the sum of those voices, then how much more weight would a united Latin American voice carry. I hope the day is near when that voice will resound within these wails.
86.	Time and again we have witnessed an almost reflex reaction, namely, invoking the principle of non-intervention by way of exorcism to silence any mention of the principles of the Charter. I would not wish to leave the slightest doubt as to the paramount importance of the principle of non-intervention, which Venezuela recognizes, since it is the essential basis for the civilized coexistence of States and the defence of the weak when confronted with the whims of the powerful. It is our firm conviction that no country, nor any group of countries, has the right to interfere in the internal affairs of others or to try to impose ideologies or forms of government on another. But we cannot assent to this principle being falsely bandied about in an attempt, by silence or ambiguity, to make us accomplices to the suppression of freedom or the trampling of human rights or to prevent this Organization, with all its authority, from supporting the historical processes and the social forces which are moving towards the attainment of the principles proclaimed in their own fundamental instruments, towards democracy, equality and economic and social justice.
87.	Only a few days ago Venezuela, as an observer country, attended the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries. There, in Havana, I had occasion to express the hope of my Government that the non-aligned movement would continue to preserve its unique features which have been characteristic of it since the African-Asian Conference, held at Bandung in 1955, and the first non-aligned Conference, held in Belgrade in 1961.
88.	As the spokesman of a people that prides itself on having no race, because we are of all races, I then pledged—and I confirm it here—the unrestricted and unqualified support of Venezuela for all actions designed to eradicate the abominable aberration of racism. I therefore consider that our repudiation and condemnation of racism in all its forms must be expressed with added vigour and more categorically than ever, especially against that crime which adds insult to injury by presuming to institutionalize racism as a system, as is happening in South Africa with apartheid.
89.	This is also an appropriate occasion to confirm Venezuela's absolute support for the aspirations to freedom and dignity of the peoples of Namibia and Zimbabwe.
90.	History has shown us that freedom is rarely a gift; it almost always comes after a constant battle to win it and defend it. In that battle there can be no respite for us who, because we are not super-Powers, can ensure our freedom only by our joint effort and with our resolute opposition to the predominance of hegemonies, imperialisms or blocs, which would attempt to suppress our sovereignty and our national identity, as well as our solidarity with and support for all peoples that are striving to acquire, preserve or retrieve their right to freedom, independence and self-determination. Only on this basis will it be possible to solve the conflicts and tensions which in the Middle East, South-East Asia, Africa and anywhere else in the world bar the way for mankind to advance in its quest for peace and the well-being of all.
91.	We think that a human being cannot be coldly considered in terms of the antagonistic systems which brought about the crystallization of the policy of blocs.
92.	We know that political freedom is illusory when there is economic exploitation. So far, regrettably, the efforts we have made as third-world countries to attain a more just situation in our economic relations with the industrialized countries have been frustrated by their short-sightedness and intransigence. They are seemingly determined to demonstrate to the developing countries a truth of which Venezuela is already convinced: that significant concessions can be won only from positions of power and that the only form of power in the hands of countries that are producers of raw materials and consumers of industrial products is concerted action and solidarity, as the experience of the oil-producing countries has shown.
93.	Such action inspired by solidarity is more forceful and proves to be more effective when the request of justice from the outside world is borne out by a climate of genuine social justice at home.
94.	As regards the subject of energy, it is reassuring to observe that there is an increasingly better understanding of the difficult situation in which the international community finds itself. Airy and even irresponsible accusations against OPEC have lost credibility. The Governments of industrialized countries are beginning to concentrate their attention on measures to reduce excessive consumption, thereby being able to act on the demand for oil. As a country member of OPEC, Venezuela views this as a highly positive evolution and as the best point of departure to devise instruments for effective conservation policies which will allow for an extension of the transition period to alternate sources of energy which are renewable and non-polluting and also to speed up scientific research for their swift use.
95.	The Government of Venezuela realizes that many developing countries are undergoing a particularly difficult situation in the present circumstances. It has acted and is prepared to act so as to contribute, in keeping with the requirements of the moment, to ensure oil supplies for those countries and lessen the financial burden due to its higher cost. This is a fundamental premise of the foreign policy of my country, one which as always had the widest national consensus. On the other hand, it is evident that the problems of those countries are essentially the results of structural imbalances which affect the world economy. Compliance with the doctrine of international social justice carries with it an obligation to support the less fortunate developing countries in the improvement of their international bargaining position. The individual weakness of the developing countries vis-a-vis the industrialized nations causes us to take a firm stand in the collective struggle of our countries to secure a just participation in the world economic system.
96.	Venezuela has reiterated in various forums its support for the idea of holding within the United Nations a new round of international economic negotiations including the subject of energy. This new dialogue must avoid the pitfalls along the way. The ability to do that will depend on the extent to which the industrialized countries show a positive political will to achieve concrete and meaningful results in the improvement of international economic relations.
97.	The deep-seated economic disarray that affects the international economy provides us with an opportunity to build a new international economic order in which the legitimate claims of the developing countries will be fully met. We must face our common problems with courage, seeking just and rational solutions. The gravity of the present crisis and economic interdependence make this necessary. The alternative is that we shall be forced into accelerated and irreversible deterioration with unforeseeable consequences.
98.	Some of the negotiations under way, such as those concerning the Common Fund for the Integrated Programme on Commodities6 and those on science and technology, have produced results that, unfortunately, still appear on the whole to be very slim and almost imperceptible in terms of the establishment of the new international economic order,
99.	At the recent session of the Committee of the Whole Established under General Assembly Resolution 32/174, there was again evidence of a lack of the political will that could have enabled us to reach genuine agreements on the issues included in its programme of work. In this context, the proposal of the Group of 77-based on a resolution of the Sixth Conference of Non-Aligned Countries—acquires particular significance in the new global North-South negotiations.
100.	Present circumstances demand that we establish an atmosphere of mutual trust and proceed with a sense of urgency. The 1980 special session of the General Assembly must achieve a break-through in the North-South negotiations by bringing about substantive results for the start of the new international economic order. While such results would provide real opportunities to the developing countries by establishing interdependence based on justice and equity, the entire community of nations would also unquestionably stand to gain from the new impetus given the world economy, as has been fully recognized.
101.	We of the developing countries are prepared to assume our responsibilities. We trust that the developed countries will also assume theirs. We are determined to intensify our co-operation on the basis of collective self-reliance. Efforts we have made among ourselves, particularly in Mexico City, Buenos Aires, Arusha, Manila, Havana and now here in New York, have been given a vigorous and growing impetus to produce meaningful and concrete results without delay. This does not exempt the wealthy countries from their obligations to the developing countries; on the contrary, it emphasizes them. South-South co-operation is an indispensable complement to North-South cooperation and must help the latter acquire effectiveness and innovative strength.
102.	As the President of my country Luis Herrera Campins said when he addressed a recent meeting of the Latin American Economic System, at the very beginning of his term of office:
"Despite its difficult economic situation, its precarious social stability and its slow democratic progress, Latin America today is in fact the part of the developing world where there is the widest agreement on goals, more convergence towards them and the greatest probability of success in achieving those ends, at least in part. In spite of the distances that separate us from the industrialized world, there is a kind of premonition that the tide of progress of Western civilization, which at one time had begun to flow in a circle from the Mediterranean to the West, is today bearing in a clear southerly direction, towards Latin America,"
103.	The menace of the crisis that occurred in 1914, which Churchill with keen perspicacity called a "world crisis', continues to threaten us. Hope for its disappearance is deep-rooted in the thinking of all mankind, of men of every rank and condition, seeking ways for peaceful and useful coexistence.
104.	Between the two World Wars, mankind, far from realizing the dream of peace, witnessed the emergence of the two most powerful dictatorships the world had ever known, dictatorships that made their influence felt on men's bodies and on their souls.
105.	Despite the fact that nearly half a century has elapsed since the 1945 peace and the foundation of the United Nations, we are still hoping for the establishment of a just and necessary new order.
106.	The conflict did not end in 1945, nor did it begin in 1914. Its causes and tensions came from the past. They did not end when the guns were silenced, nor were they resolved. A new consciousness prevailed, foretelling a new political and social objective. Already then there was an obvious need to replace the old world order with a new order that would be more sincere and stable, more just and provident.
107.	Recent times have witnessed continuous commotions, ruptures, violence and wars, blatantly revealing just how precarious the situation was and how stubborn the basic facts, tensions and divergencies.
108.	After undergoing two terrible periods of global war, mankind knows therefore that it is not possible to secure peace by means of mere military, political and economic might; it knows that international order cannot be guaranteed by the hegemonies of the superpowers. There are no perpetual hegemonies in the history of man. Predominant Powers come and go; they have been and are the products of their times. The new international order can be built only on just relations among peoples. As long as the nations that benefit from the present international order because of their might fail to realize that such a situation Is not eternal, the world will continue to live under the burden of the threat of war.
109.	This Organization, it is often said, came into being because of the grief of a world devastated by war and as a response to the universal aspiration for peace.
110.	It is a contradiction in terms to seek a genuinely new international order while maintaining the existence of hegemonies.
111.	International social justice must be the foundation of the new order. Basically this implies two things: first, a realization that greater power does not confer greater rights, but rather increasing duties that entail the correction of existing imbalances in the present international order, secondly, a larger share for the developing countries in the decision-making process in international affairs.
112.	Venezuelan policy, as I said at the outset, is inspired by a profound respect for human beings and peoples. The essential characteristic of human dignity is freedom—the greatest gift of the Creator to human beings in the natural order of things. Freedom is realized by means of the social organization of people and by democracy which guarantees and secures the most varied participation as is necessary. The essential characteristic of the dignity of nations is independence, which, in the international order, means that peoples are not there to be made into instruments but to be respected, regardless of their military or economic power, because sovereignty is not divisible, nor does it depend on the size or wealth of nations, but on the courage which in any part of the world is used with honest sincerity to defend justice.
113.	Venezuela was the cradle of the emancipation of Latin America. Our continent has been and is the continent of hope. To all the peoples represented here and to grieving mankind anxiously yearning for freedom, peace and justice, I leave the brotherly solidarity of Bolivar's country.


===== Session 35 - 1980 =====
﻿184. First of all, Sir, I should like to fulfil the pleasant duty of extending to you, on behalf of the delegation of Venezuela and on my own behalf, our sincere congratulations on your well-deserved election as President of this session of the General Assembly. Your outstanding performance as Permanent Representative of the Federal Republic of Germany, a country with which Venezuela has close links, your thorough knowledge of the United Nations and your great personal qualities are the best guarantee that this General Assembly will have wise and effective guidance.
185.	I also wish to congratulate and express our gratitude to Mr. Salim, who presided over the thirty-fourth session of the Assembly, the two special emergency sessions, on Afghanistan and Palestine, and the eleventh special session of the Assembly, with the deftness and skill which have characterized his outstanding career as Permanent Representative of the United Republic of Tanzania.
186.	The United Nations has played a decisive role in decolonization, a field in which, precisely, Mr. Salim has distinguished himself. The entry of two new States as Members of this world Organization once again highlights the role of the United Nations in this field. In this connexion, I am pleased to welcome the delegation of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines and to reiterate our greetings to the delegation of Zimbabwe, which are joining us in the work of the General Assembly.
187.	The thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly is taking place at a time of acute international confrontations, of anguish and threats of war, together with major challenges and unswerving aspirations to peace.
188.	At the outset of the Third United Nations Development Decade, not only economic problems are besetting relations between nations but also, with increasing priority, political military problems have arisen in various parts of the world. Thus, since the last regular session, an atmosphere has been created such that often, and with a certain undertone of inevitability, one hears talk of the world witnessing the prologue of what will be the third world war. Such a situation compels us to stop and consider, first, the fundamental role of the United Nations itself and its ability to rise above the risks of an existence which internationally carries the sign of fear of war.
189.	Our Organization was born of the concerted political will which, after the Second World War, decided to embody in a supreme international forum the shared aspirations for peace, freedom and justice.
190.	The international community has found in the United Nations, despite the shortcomings of the Organization itself and of Member States, an instrument well suited to the continuous striving towards the high goals that were and continue to be the common aspiration of mankind.
191.	It would therefore be irrational to disregard the merits of the United Nations. We praise them and. in a positive spirit, maintain that what is needed today is that the collective political will that brought about the birth of the United Nations be attuned to the specific requirements of the hour.
192.	It is obvious that responsibility for present international tensions lies with the great Powers, which look upon the United Nations and the international scene with a self-centred attitude. Thus, for the great hegemonic Powers, peace becomes a mere balance of power.
193.	The traditional international order is one that has as its weak underpinnings the common fear of the great Powers of the consequences of a nuclear war and the added fear of the other countries, which, while not being or aspiring to be front-rank Powers, know that the tragic and incalculable results of a third world war would not only affect the nations that started it, but would be devastatingly reflected in all the countries in the world.
194.	The most negative forces of conservatism in the effort to preserve the present international status quo are the great Powers. This conservative attitude, which is projected in any review of the international situation in terms of their selfish hegemonic interests, is the backup position for the irrational wave of warring that is shaking the world.
195.	I he United Nations must have the capacity for self-transformation so as to deprive the great Powers of their archaic privileges, which are a threat to the common good of mankind. We are convinced that for this Organization and for the world the hour of truth has come.
196.	The crisis is structural and deep-rooted; it is felt worldwide. We have been brought to this by an intrinsically unjust international system: artificially induced consumption; waste of natural resources; irreversible environmental damage; monetary and financial chaos; economies in bondage; uncontrolled inflation; manipulation of human beings, not just in body but, what is worse, also in spirit: stockpiling of weapons of mass destruction that could in a flash transform this beautiful planet we were given as our dwelling place into cosmic dust; and while, on the one hand, needless luxuries and weapons are amassed at astronomical cost, on the other, two thirds of mankind suffer chronic hunger and subsist in subhuman conditions.
197.	The United Nations has developed basic principles for harmonious coexistence, which speaks highly of its willingness to face bravely the challenges of this tragic time. Those principles include non-intervention, collective security, the self-determination of peoples, respect for human rights and permanent sovereignty over natural resources— to mention only some.
198.	But unfortunately, we must point out that these have often been ignored by the great Powers with deliberate selfishness, and no way has been found to control this attitude. Some attempts have even been made to justify it by invoking the principle of the reserved dominion of the State, a principle that was brought forth in history to protect the weak and afflicted, not to provide an aggressor's action with a cloak of honesty.
199.	This hour of truth implies an appeal to reflexion: we are still able to sit down and discuss, rationally and without passion, the events that are inexorably bringing us to a collapse; we are in a position to measure the depth of the crisis and, through deliberate decisions, to correct the course of history. Crises are, in the last analysis, the consequence of human action, and human will can therefore bring about their positive solution.
200.	In order to achieve such results, an essential condition must be met, a condition that the Government of Venezuela has made .a permanent norm of its policy—a fervent belief in justice and in solidarity. Any principle is but an empty shell unless it is permanently powered by this vital concept.
201.	Our peoples believe in justice; they are aware that it can be achieved in this world; they know that a better mankind is possible if one fights for it. This vital aspiration will brook no opposition from principles interpreted at a whim, or from deadly weapons, which can do no more than contain the first onslaught by an endless multitude. Let us hope that this distressing reality of our era will be understood before it is too late.
202.	Therefore, as has been repeatedly stated by President Luis Herrera Campins, Venezuela's foreign policy is based on international social justice and on solidarity. That is why he has affirmed his belief in a more just and more humane international law based on the development of the human person and of all men. and rooted in peace, justice and integral and harmonious development—a peace which is not only absence of war, a justice imbued with social feelings between the peoples of the earth, and an integral harmonious development which makes man the centre and all of its concern. At the same time, that international law would have solidarity as part of its substance, which implies the conviction that relations must have their foundations in the law and in the obligation of those who have the most towards those who have the least —not as a gift or as a gracious concession, but as a rule of international legal norms inspired by social justice.
203.	Those are the terms of the hour of truth. This is the moment when one clearly perceives that the new international order is not going to be achieved by short-term adjustments, which would only prolong and intensify the agony of the present order, but by a change in the vital conception of the world in which we live.
204.	Latin America, Africa and Asia can and must act jointly in the United Nations with a clear policy aimed at achieving democratic management of the international community as an element of balance vis-à-vis the great Powers.
205.	Our peoples are the major creditors of history. And since we have had a wretched experience with imperialism, colonialism and neo-colonialism. we are bound to act together so that we may achieve effective changes that will enable us to throw off the shackles of dependence which have often made our peoples mere pawns in the games played by the superpowers.
206.	In their already lengthy struggle, the third world countries have had positive experience in concerting their efforts in their own internal processes, as well as in their bilateral and multilateral relations.
207.	The achievements of the Group of 77 and the unity they have maintained in the North South dialogue, as well as the improvements they have gained in the specific terms of South South cooperation, constitute an encouraging example of what can be done in the immediate future.
208.	Given the dangers and risks of the present international situation, we the developing countries cannot maintain a mere attitude of complaint or accusation. The certain possibility of democratic management of the international community compels us to be constantly united in our efforts.
209.	In this context, the struggle against the international status quo will require of medium sized and small States clear objectives, creative capacity, political imagination, negotiating flexibility, realistic positions, bold constancy and a steadfastness of purpose.
210.	Democratic management of the international community, based on the principle of the legal equality of States, as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, must be a main goal in the struggle of our countries to ensure predominance of this principle. It is a goal to be achieved through a succession of partial gains.
211.	The strategy of the major centres of hegemony will be directed at sowing the seeds of dejection, by presenting as illusory or as doomed to failure an effort which only an immature point of view could present as being susceptible of immediate achievement.
212.	Democratic management of the international community can and should be of concern to all countries that cannot agree to important decisions relating to their own destiny being taken without their participation. In this connexion, recent events in Poland provide significant evidence which should give much food for thought in view of the factors they have brought to light.
213.	The pre-war climate of uncertainty is rooted in the great Power rivalry for mastery of geopolitically important areas and for access to and control over strategic resources. The pre-war risk exists because of the senseless behaviour of the great blocs, which devise and carry out coven or overt forms of domination over peoples, blatantly seeking only to increase their actual power.
214.	Without democratic management of the international community, the new international order will not be achieved. In the present international status quo which the majority of the developed countries want to maintain, the new order will be a difficult goal, and the global negotiations to attain it will continue to be fraught with problems.
215.	Attempts are being made to divide and weaken the Group of 77. But the political maturity and serious mindedness of the Group must lead it to seek tenaciously a meaningful dialogue aimed at practical agreement and effective action. The strengthening of such a dialogue would bring us closer to our goals.
216.	The Government of Venezuela is convinced of the need further to secure our horizontal relationships of economic and political solidarity among small and medium sized countries. Often, the policies and strategies followed by the developing countries were a reaction to the developed countries' attitudes and policies or, at least, the results of structurally asymmetrical relations between the centre and the periphery.
217.	We do not deny the usefulness and value of such positions or the imperative need for them to be upheld and strengthened in the future. At the same time, far more meaningful efforts should be made to expand the South South links. I would go further and even venture to say that if we have not made more progress in the North South dialogue. It is because practical solidarity among developing countries has not been sufficiently strong
218.	This is an underlying challenge which, so far, we have met with only piecemeal responses; yet. its vast possibilities are within our reach: ail we need is the will and the determination to arrive at an understanding among ourselves.
219.	In the context of the international political situation, we must sadly recognize that there are examples of those who expect to be able to ensure the, albeit uncertain, survival of their regimes through docility to the dictates of the great hegemonic centres.
220.	They are the ones who fall prey to the historical cynism of applauding the whittling down of the sovereignty of peoples, whenever it is carried out by the Power to which they have given a lien on their destiny, all the while pretending to be the prophets of a just and dignified future, whereas their own indignity and injustice, in a less hypocritical world, would strike them dumb with shame.
221.	The great capitalist and socialist Powers should know that the developing countries are not prepared to acquiesce in mute resignation to a so-called realpolitik by which they seek only the international hardening of their attitudes.
222.	We developing peoples are the great creditors of history and the best reserves for peace. Our effective responsibility and our serious international dynamism are more than ever needed today to lessen tensions, to ward off the risks of war and to instil new life into international organizations. The democratic management of the international community must become a reality and an effective guarantee for peace.
223.	Five years after the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, held at Helsinki, the real results, aside from occasional rhetoric and the demagoguery of bloc politics, could hardly have been more disappointing.
224.	The second review session of that Conference is to take place at Madrid in November. If Governments continue to view summits like these as opportunities to assess their strength and to win Pyrrhic diplomatic victories with no positive impact on the life of peoples, we fear that, even though the signatories of the Act to be adopted at the Madrid session be equal to or greater in number than those of the Helsinki Final Act, there is little for Europe in particular and the world in general to expect from the Conference.
225.	The international community wishes that Conference to meet without this balance of dread, a false balance of fear, as a backdrop for the talks. The international community knows that, since the Helsinki Act was signed, there has not been one moment without specific reports from all sides of a lack of compliance with what was agreed to there.
226.	Furthermore, in the time between the Helsinki and Madrid Conferences, deplorable events have occurred as evidence of the intention of the great Powers to resist any significant change in the international order in which they enjoy a privileged status.
227.	We, the genuinely peace-loving peoples, understand that part of the approach of the superpowers is their intention of creating docile sub Powers, which will acquire and maintain this essential trait because of their systems of political and military cooperation.
228.	The developing world is familiar with that kind of procedure. It knows full well that anyone who becomes a party to warlike adventure and irresponsible violence is jetting out on a fratricidal road and ends up with his own sovereignty and that of others tarnished.
229.	Since Helsinki such sorrowful and reprehensible events have occurred as the emergence of the tragic situation in Kampuchea and the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Venezuela stated here, at the United Nations, on the occasion of the sixth emergency special session, its rejection of such aggression.  Today we ratify our condemnation. Afghanistan is still an occupied country and the repression unleashed by the invading army against the Afghan patriots, the type of weapons used and the inadmissible reasoning put forward to defend what is indefensible call for a consistent and unswerving denunciation by the entire third world. Our repudiation of such procedures, which are drawn from the most conventional imperialist geopolitics, is clear and trenchant.
230.	As a result of events in Afghanistan there is a not insignificant crisis within the nonaligned movement. We shall support every effort to achieve adherence by the movement to the principles which brought it into the world.
231.	Nonalignment is the guarantee for the complete self-determination of peoples and the sound foundation for absolute sovereignty, the self-respect of nations, mutual respect in relations among States, a balanced peace and the hope for an ever more just future, and not for the balance of fear of war and the growing degradation of the weakest peoples. Finally it is the guarantee that it is possible to achieve democratic management of the international community, a new world law and the new international economic order.
232.	Bloc politics—as we see—leads only to a balance of terror and to limited conflicts and hotbeds of local wars, which ultimately causes direct harm to developing countries.
233.	Venezuela pinpoints the position adopted by Zimbabwe as hopeful and positive in the context of the present African and international situation. The statement made by Prime Minister Mugabe when his country joined the United Nations  offers a clear definition of constructive and authentic nonalignment. The people of Zimbabwe proved that independence can be achieved and maintained without any alignment at all with the great hegemonic centres of world power; that internal and international leadership is enhanced when respect for one's own patriotic dignity is set as an effective containment wall against the interests of the superpowers, whose only wish is to acquire docile instruments; and that independence can be achieved and maintained without the doubtful help of foreign armies on one's own soil.
234.	In Zimbabwe the people were able to choose their own destiny by the civic and peaceful means of the vote. The leadership of Prime Minister Mugabe is strengthened by popular opinion, as expressed in free elections, which showed the world which choices the people of Zimbabwe really wanted, and which were simply the effect of orchestrated propaganda.
235.	On greeting the presence of Zimbabwe once again, we affirm in solidarity that African problems can be solved only by Africans. We say this because we want the problems of Latin America to be solved only by Latin Americans.
236.	We have not allowed, nor are we prepared to allow, any attempts to be made to play irresponsibly with the future of the peoples of Latin America by the use of whatever influence anyone may have over them to increase the impact of ominous bloc policies through organized violence.
237.	We support all genuinely Latin American proposals which, in this hour, which is crucial for our hemisphere, and especially for Central America and the Caribbean—seek to overcome problems by civic and peaceful means.
238.	This is an appropriate opportunity to reiterate most energetically our condemnation of terrorism as a form of struggle, whatever the political beliefs of those who engage in it and regardless of where it takes place. Criminal acts cannot be justified by any flag.
239.	Venezuela's basic principles of solidarity and cooperation have been evident for years, especially in Central America and the Caribbean.
240.	The recent Venezuelan Mexican programme for cooperation in energy and finance, signed by President Herrera Campins and President Lopez Portillo at San Jose, Costa Rica as part of the programme for the region implemented by Venezuela during the past five years—a programme which earned the praise of the international community—proves that effective terms for cooperation are to be found in genuine forms of civilized life and not in fostering organized violence. It is through them that we shall make true headway in building the Latin American future of our peoples.
241.	Venezuela believes that the Caribbean should be a zone of peace. The establishment of the Caribbean as a zone of peace would require the dismantling of the military operations bases and installations of those that are rivals for world supremacy, and would call for a stop to all interventionism, whether intraregional, extra regional, continental or insular. The establishment of the Caribbean as a zone of peace would also call for an immediate demonstration of cooperation aimed towards the solution of the grave economic, social and other problems of the area.
242.	Speaking of the Caribbean, we wish to reaffirm here that, for historical, geographic, social, cultural and sentimental reasons, we consider Puerto Rico to be an integral part of the Latin American community and not otherwise. Our support for the right of Puerto Ricans to self-determination is the result of a deep democratic conviction and an expression of Latin American solidarity which has stood the test of years in a variety of circumstances.
243.	At the recent Caracas meeting on the new international information order, a strategy harmful to the developing countries was in evidence. What is at stake is nothing other than the right to inform and to be informed. The two facets of this right to information have been manipulated, and attempts are still made to manipulate them.
244.	Venezuela advocated at the Paris and Caracas meetings, and will advocate at the General Conference of UNESCO, now opening its twenty-first session at Belgrade, the concept of a new independent information order, one that is sovereign and that will serve as a guarantee of effective defence by developing peoples against sophisticated forms of domination.
245.	Venezuela supports all actions designed to eradicate from the face of the earth racism in all its forms, especially the form which claims to set itself up as a system, as is the case in South Africa with apartheid.
246.	Our support for the independence of Namibia, in accordance with United Nations decisions, is clear and unequivocal.
247.	We view with concern the existing situation in the Middle East. Peace in that region of the world will not be possible as long as efforts continue to be made to impose sectarian policies which are contrary to the best spirit of the international community and which refuse to recognize the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people.
248.	Venezuela has supported United Nations resolutions which recognize both those rights and the right of the State of Israel to existence and security, resolutions which advocate comprehensive, peaceful, just and equitable solutions with the participation of all the parties to the conflict.
249.	We fervently hope that peace will return to Lebanon, the tormented nation with which we are united by many ties of friendship and affection.
250.	At the ninth session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, concluded in August this year, considerable progress was made. Basic questions were resolved through compromise formulas which had the support of the vast majority of the participants in the Conference. It is our hope that at the tenth session, to be held in April 1981, pending matters will be settled to the satisfaction of all States concerned. We are pleased that the lengthy process of laborious and complex negotiations may soon come to an end with the adoption of an international instrument to be called the Caracas Convention on the Law of the Sea.
251.	At the present time, the global negotiations on economic cooperation are a matter of importance. The fact that three countries—the United States, the United Kingdom and the Federal Republic of Germany—did not join in the general consensus arrived at after long and arduous discussions prevented the eleventh special session of the General Assembly from setting the opening date of the global negotiations for next year as had been anticipated. Like all the other Members of the United Nations, Venezuela hopes that those three countries will reconsider their position and will join in the consensus as quickly as possible.
252.	The General Assembly must complete, during the current session, the work which was not achieved with regard to procedures and the agenda. Venezuela and the other countries members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries affirmed, at their recent tri-ministerial meeting, their full support for the global negotiations. The international community must resolve to do everything in its power to achieve results that will be of benefit to all, and especially to the developing countries.
253.	In many areas, and following various initiatives, the United Nations is working ceaselessly towards a new international order. There are many obstacles. Great difficulties will arise. The guarantee of progressive achievement for the benefit of mankind must be found in the clear political will of the majority of Member States.
254.	Today, more than ever, peace is needed. The yearning for peace is sincerely shared by all peoples of the world. In this connexion, the President of Venezuela, Mr. Luis Herrera Campins, has stated that "the desire for an international life free from armed conflicts is a meeting ground for all people of goodwill".
255. Peace is consolidated by justice. Peace requires freedom. Peace is the result of truth. In a memorable message, His Holiness Pope John Paul II rightly affirmed that "truth is the strength of peace".
256. Let us be capable of responding to the challenges of the hour with truth, and with the effectiveness of practical goodness.


===== Session 36 - 1981 =====
50 Mr. President, on behalf of Venezuela and of my Government, I sincerely congratulate you on the honor of having been elected President of the General Assembly. Your personal qualities and experience as representative of Iraq are an assurance of correct and effective action.
51.	I should also like to pay a cordial tribute to your predecessor, Mr. Ridiger von Wechmar, whose composure has earned him the affection and respect of the Organization.
52.	I am also pleased to welcome Vanuatu, which this year participates in the work of the Organization, and with which Venezuela will work closely towards the common objectives of peace, progress and social justice.
53.	To me as a Venezuelan, and as Constitutional President of Venezuela, addressing this gathering represents the embodiment of the admirable and grandiose foresight of The Liberator, Simon Bolivar, the 200th anniversary of whose birth we shall celebrate on 24 July 1983.
54.	When Bolivar conceived the still unrealized dream of Latin American integration, of "forming a single nation from the entire New World", he wrote:
"How beautiful it would be if the Isthmus of Panama were to us what the Isthmus of Corinth is to the Greeks. Would to God that we may some day have the good fortune to convene there an august assembly of the representatives of republics, kingdoms and empires to deliberate upon the high interests of peace and of war with nations from three-quarters of the globe. This type of organization may come to pass in some happier period of our regeneration. . .
55.	Thirty-six years of United Nations life have led to the identification of its pathway, the consolidation of its perspectives and the evaluation of its achievements and failures.
56.	Those years have seen much progress in terms of decolonization and the furthering of human rights. World political geography has a new design; the traditional great empires have disappeared. None the less, power politics, cruel and covert, have made themselves felt in the life of this institution, but the constant labor of the small countries has given it an authentic being of its own.
57.	The last decade bears witness to a. growing distortion of the ends, purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, and the reality of a world in which the dizzy kaleidoscope of events damages those principles.
58.	Many peace-keeping efforts have been made in this forum, and we must overcome great difficulties for this institution to contribute effectively to the achievement of a true peace.- The evils threatening mankind are not invincible, and hope in the United Nations is far from vanquished.
59.	The peoples of the world are anxious for the truth, for the abolition of pious lies. They seek authenticity and turn aside from hegemonic pretenses disguised as ideological crusades. Nations previously colonized from without do not now wish to be colonized from within. They not only want to be recognized and known as independent; they wish to be and know themselves to be non- dependent.
60.	The ideal of this Organization is to "save succeeding generations from the scourge of war". Article 4 of the Charter allows as Members only "peace-loving states". For the same reason, a collective security system was established to prevent and control aggression.
61.	Yet aggression occurs frequently, shamelessly, undisguisedly. Responses to such aggression are barely formal resolutions devoid of concrete substance, or may simply not even reach the level of operative recognition of the Organization, which often seems to have eyes so as not to see.
62.	How long can this breach between principles and facts be maintained?
63.	One of the bases of the United Nations is respect for the self-determination of peoples. Memorable General Assembly resolutions have bravely and rightly developed that principle, but solemn words alone do not become practical effectiveness.
64.	Manifest examples and subtle evidence of the absurd policy of blocs abound. On behalf of that policy of force, interventions occur with the intention of imposing or maintaining given political regimes leaning towards one ideology or another, or intervention is threatened, to intimidate with the force of arms.
65.	In 1945, the founding Members of the United Nations proclaimed our will "to employ international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social advancement of all peoples".
66.	We committed ourselves "To achieve international cooperation in solving international problems of an economic, social, cultural, or humanitarian character".
67.	In that regard, reality has led us over very different and overwhelmingly opposed paths.
68.	The gap between the more developed and the poorer countries has widened. Material resources of the latter group, usurped or acquired at ignoble cost, have served to develop the industrialized nations.
69.	In his Encyclical of 14 September 1981, "Human Work", His Holiness John Paul II bravely denounced that deplorable reality: 
"... the highly industrialized countries, and even more the businesses that direct on a large scale the means of industrial production (the companies referred to as multinational or transnational), fix the highest possible prices for their products, while trying at the same time to fix the lowest possible prices for raw materials or semi-manufactured goods. This is one of the causes of an ever increasing disproportion between national incomes. The gap between most of the richest countries and the poorest ones is not diminishing or being stabilized but is increasing more and more, to the detriment, obviously, of the poor countries. Evidently this must have an effect on local labor policy and on the worker's situation in the economically disadvantaged societies. Finding himself in a system thus conditioned, the direct employer fixes working conditions below the objective requirements of the workers, especially if he himself wishes to obtain the highest possible profits from the business which he runs (or from the businesses which he runs, in the case of a situation of 'socialized' ownership of the means of production)."
He adds:
". . . it is respect for the objective rights of the worker every kind of worker: manual or intellectual, industrial or agricultural, etc. that must constitute the adequate and fundamental criterion for shaping the whole economy, both on the level of the individual society and State and within the whole of the world economic policy and of the systems of international relationships that derive from it."
70.	Indifference, dehumanization and selfishness influence those who refuse even the most modest cooperation in reasonable plans for participation and for redistribution of wealth on the world level, adopting increasingly restrictive policies protective of their own markets, using capital and technology to bend the sovereign will of others and not hesitating to disrupt institutions and Governments which oppose their designs of economic dominance.
71.	A difficult world environment hinders the third world's efforts and the capacity of its individual nations to apply policies with a social content.
72.	Our countries demand that perspectives of independent development be allowed; that our efforts be permitted to result in full and integral well-being.
73.	In a year which has imparted many lessons, Venezuela presided over the Group of 77. The North-South dialog faces difficult circumstances. Venezuela was honored to host the High-Level Conference on Economic cooperation among Developing Countries, and to have our capital as reference point in the Program of Action adopted [see Al36/333]. That effort reinforces our solidarity and we establish among ourselves the necessary principles of cooperation, self-confidence, equity and mutual benefit.
74.	The Group of 77 considers the Program and its implementation as an effort at the collective restructuring of international economic relations, the establishment of a new international economic order, and a way for developing nations to become aware of and apply their potential, exercising the prominent position which is theirs by right and showing that, through will and vision, the obstacles which stand in the way of a better future for all may be overcome.
75.	The areas selected are strategic in the evolution of our societies and through them we seek a balanced approach to handling our complementary attributes.
76.	I am honored to present this Program to the international community; it does not seek to replace the responsibilities of the developed countries. Its implementation will help to construct an international community ruled by the will to live in cooperation through self-managed human and material resources.
77.	We aim at the operative levels, recognizing the global nature of the crisis and its solutions and seeking a negotiating process which will commit the political wills of the participating nations. We know what is at stake and must make the necessary decisions. It is not a matter of lapsing into transitory phases, nor of remaining therein. We must have clear objectives and program and carry out the required action until we achieve fair, sound and beneficial world relations.
78.	The challenge assumes gigantic dimensions. If our efforts fail out of stubbornness or impermanence in decision-making, we shall have exhausted the roads to negotiation and consultation and placed the United Nations system in a powerless vacuum.
79.	We have waited as long as necessary to adopt decisions and to present them to this forum, the appropriate one in which all can participate equally in a debate on matters of general and fundamental interest.
80.	Venezuela is honored to have been invited to speak at the highest level with countries of great political and economic importance, on the subject of international cooperation in its widest sense. We trust that at the forthcoming meeting in Cancun, Mexico, the will to find solutions will prevail and be rapidly reflected in the global negotiations which the international community must undertake to regulate its economic relations. The presence in this Assembly of the representatives of participants at that meeting leads me to ask, on my own behalf and with permission of the Assembly on behalf of all developing countries, that the dialog live up to the objectives of the global negotiations process which we propose.
81.	We must overcome the reticence confronting the North-South dialog, reactivate it and impart to it a substantial and operative content with clear objectives. Thus, within a period of months, we shall have launched a complete revision of international economic relations in the North-South and South-South channels, recovering faith in our own collective future.
82.	During this season Venezuela will end its chairmanship of the Group of 77. We cannot judge our own actions, but we made the greatest possible effort to be loyal to and worthy of the trust placed in us. We had made the same effort long before assuming chairmanship of the Group and we shall continue to do so in the future: our international actions are consistent with the democratic principles on which they are based and are not confined to the temporary presidency, with which we were honored, of the Group of 77.
83.	An African nation will soon replace Venezuela at the head of this Group. That encourages us to reflect on the understanding among Africa, Asia and Latin America in the context of the current world situation. The peoples of those three continents, with their similarities and differences, have a permanent vocation for justice, liberty and peace. 
I 84. Venezuela believes that the challenge of the future 1 lies in the cultural, scientific and technological development of the third world countries, allowing them to evolve on autonomous bases. In 1980 we created the Foundation for the International Institute of Advanced Studies, among whose major and most representative pro-grammes insofar as Venezuela's co-operative effort is concerned is the creation of the "Institute of Higher Studies of Third-World Science and Technology", or "Intermundo" which will be solidly backed by the member countries of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries [OPEC], for the purpose of providing centers where people may meet and for the dissemination of scientific progress through graduate courses offered to young technicians and professionals in the developing world.
85.	Concern for the Caribbean Basin's economic and social development led the Governments of Canada, Mexico, the United States and my own Government to meet in Nassau last July.
86.	The participating Governments issued a joint communique in which they restated their determination to continue efforts on behalf of the continuing, integral development of the area, with plans and priorities laid down by the countries of the area, free of military considerations or prior political conditions.

87.	My country shares many problems and needs with the nations of that Basin and supports them as far as its means and level of development allow.
88.	This cooperation effort is a move towards the new international economic order rather than the establishment of any particular relations in detriment of the North-South dialog. Conscious of the size of this undertaking, we should like other Governments within or outside the region to help those countries to achieve their national development. I extend this invitation to the Assembly.
89.	No new international economic order can exist so long as colonialism endures. Since the creation of the United Nations my country has remained firmly anti-colonial in its policy, regardless of the centers of power in question.
90.	Confronted by colonialism, this Organization has complied with and will continue to further the struggle for the independence of peoples subjected to foreign domination and should be particularly energetic not only in the face of conventional colonialism, but also of new and subtle types of pressure of one State over another new forms of covert colonialism.
91.	Venezuela has been especially interested in the work of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and hopes that that Conference, one of the most important held under the Organization's auspices, can fulfill next year the mandate which it received from the General Assembly in 1970. The Venezuelan people are very pleased that the Conference began its work in Caracas.
92.	In Latin America and the Caribbean, we also suffer from problems of colonialism or its vestiges, or other
types of foreign domination.
93.	On our continent, particularly in the Caribbean area, new States have entered the international community as full sovereign nations. Venezuela, because of its geographical ties and as a friend and good neighbor, feels committed to the efforts of those nations as they become ever increasingly the masters of their own destiny. However, there are still cases to be solved and we trust that solutions will continue to be found, without the traumas that have occurred in other parts of the world.
94.	I hope that the day is not far off when the Latin American people of Puerto Rico take their place among us. We nurture this hope of all Latin Americans, in the conviction that it is for the people of Puerto Rico alone to determine their future.
95.	The Movement of Non-Aligned Countries is one of the major organized expressions of the third world. Venezuela, as an observer of the Movement, shares the basic principles and objectives which inspire it.
96.	We live in very difficult times. Tensions increase, and we return to a cold war which seems to spread and deepen. Extremists use terrorism as a weapon to subjugate the will of the people. Human rights are violated day after day, not only by Government regimes, but by organizations which share the common denominator of practicing violence.
97.	In Africa, racism and the intervention of diverse poles of power fuel the flames of violence. Apartheid provokes indignation in the spirits of free men, and the United Nations has always condemned and stigmatized this practice.
98.	The Middle East continues to be an explosive region. No serious effort is made to terminate the conflict between Iraq and Iran. Lebanon continues to be martyred, and peace cannot be achieved nor kept until there is a global solution to the conflict accepted by all the parties involved and until the legitimate rights of both the Palestinian and Israeli peoples to live in peace and freedom are recognized.
99.	In Europe and North America, the neutron bomb is announced and the world recoils in justified horror. Never has man felt so afraid of himself of his destructive creation, to state it paradoxically.
100.	In Asia, foreign occupation threatens the peace, sovereignty and independence of the countries of the region. Afghanistan is pain writ in red letters.
101.	In Europe, the noise of tanks and boots reverberates and the silhouettes of missiles point in every direction. While Solidarity shakes the popular soul of Poland, the shadow of powerful maneuvers huddles like a threat over that often-invaded country, whose people remain intact as such, in spite of successive dismemberments.
102.	Sometimes it seems that the United States and the Soviet Union feel themselves to be the owners of a world at whose creation they were absent, but whose hour of destruction they feel capable of imposing in an act of anti-gods. 
103.	Latin America and the Caribbean, like other continents, cannot cease to serve as a stage for confrontations among the global-domination strategies,
104.	On this occasion the sister Republic of El Salvador, a small Central American country and the long-time victim of typical military dictatorships serving the interests of predatory, selfish and insensitive oligarchies, was chosen. Dictatorship was overthrown by a civilian and military alliance which stated democratic convictions and received the support of the Salvadorian people. Deep political, social and economic reforms were immediately undertaken, transforming the agrarian, financial and commercial structure and attempting to open roads for the people, through free elections, to decide their own destiny, without foreign interference.
105.	The reaction could not be crueler or more fearful. The extreme right, rightly deprived of its ancestral privileges, has unleashed a perverse series of terrorist actions, violating human rights in an attempt to recover its lost power and to impose a new dictatorship in its own interest.
106.	The extreme left, relying on the material backing of foreign countries, has also resorted to violence to attempt at any price to retain the abolition of social and economic injustice and to prevent the holding of free elections from ending its opportunity.
107.	The "ultras" attempt to erase any possibility of a political, democratic and civil center. Neither side will allow itself to be counted, so as not to reveal its smallness.
108.	Unfortunately, some democratic countries have recently committed the error of attempting to impart an undeserved respectability to groups devoted to terrorism and to play the game of those who see a moral equality be-tween the side that is making efforts to offer a political opening through elections leading to legal institutions, and the side that is undertaking efforts to prevent such a process. Believing that they are facilitating peace, they may institutionalize war on Central American soil. El Salvador could relive the tragedy of Spain.
109.	My Government has offered support to the Government of President Napoleon Duarte on the basis of its solemn promise to allow the Salvadorian people to elect their Government. This is done in support of freedom and peace, and not of any given tendency or group, as we do not wish to influence the internal affairs of that sister nation.
110.	Venezuelans believe in and practice democracy. We do not attempt to impose our own values and concepts of society on anyone, but we know that freedom is the road of history.
111.	We believe in pluralism, within and without. We believe in solidarity and international cooperation. We contributed to the foundation of OPEC and helped to make it a formidable instrument to guarantee a fair price for a rare, strategic and expensive energy resource. This was a first step, which pointed the way for weak and developing countries. The road is open; traffic is invited.
112.	The effect of the price of non-renewable energy sources on the international economic situation is frequently cited, overlooking the contribution which those same resources, very differently valued, have made to the material and social progress of advanced industrial societies. We need not recall that OPEC is a necessary de-fence mechanism in the face of the increasing prices of manufactured goods which we import.
113.	The wealth enjoyed and largely wasted by the industrialized countries today is tied to the systematic undervaluation of these resources, dating back many decades. We received an unfair price and were almost expected to be grateful for it, as though it were a generous gesture.
114.	Oil is an example typical of the many adverse effects of international economic relations based on the undervaluation of the developing world's resources and on poorly conceived and badly managed independence, as well as on the possible internal and international effects of the indefinite postponement of decisions related to the future evolution of those relations.
115.	The situation is only partially resolved when new global responsibilities are imposed in the monetary or financial order. We must recall that constantly devalued foreign exchange is of little real value, as are investment portfolios subject to the goodwill of nations receiving our investments in public debentures, if it is not recognized that our financial surplus, eminently circumstantial over the long term, also helps to maintain the levels of investment, production and employment through the placement of capital in productive sectors through credit and the importation of goods and services.
116.	Current technological challenges continue to be motivated and justified in terms of costs, because of the revaluation of hydrocarbons. The time has not yet come when the contribution to the progress of humanity of a group of oil exporting countries can be objectively evaluated, although many developing countries consider the experience as traumatic.
117.	Recent events have proved us to be right. We have maintained that oil prices are not responsible for inflation and the West's economic crisis. For some time the in-crease in oil prices has been checked; the price has even dropped in some instances. But the inflationary process has not stopped, for the simple reason that it is the result of the economic policies of the various governments.
118.	Venezuela, as a developing country, has been willing to respond to calls for international solidarity. Our principles are devoid of selfishness, and our objectives of progress are not and never will be based on the exploitation of the needs of others.
119.	At the regional level we took the initiative of inviting Mexico to participate in an Energy cooperation Pro-gramme for Central American and Caribbean Countries, not only guaranteeing these nations a supply of oil and favorable terms of payment, but permitting 30 per cent of the oil bill to be converted into long-term (20-year) loans at minimum interest (2 per cent) if used for development plans, particularly the search for new sources of energy. At the bilateral level, we have major cooperation programs with countries of diverse socio-political orientations, such as Nicaragua, Grenada, El Salvador, Dominica and Jamaica. We are also prepared to consider possibilities of cooperation with our brothers in Africa and Asia, within our modest limitations. We do this in the conviction that unconditional cooperation and the greatest respect for the international processes of Governments are tension-releasing and peace-generating factors.
120.	The evolution of the developing countries' economies depends both on their own efforts and on the existence of favorable external conditions. They face today a series of outside pressures, as indicated by the financial problems pressing upon them.
121.	The growing imbalance in developing countries' transactions apart from the oil countries with respect to the rest of the world during the seventies, has increased dramatically in the last two years. According to International Monetary Fund calculations, the current account deficit in 1980 rose to $82 billion, as against $38 billion in 1978. Estimates for the current year indicate that the deficit will approach $100 billion.
122.	The major factors involved in this recent deterioration were the erosion of the purchasing power of exports and the foreign exchange drain caused by the cost of foreign debt. The recession in the industrialized countries and the emergence of protectionist pressures resulted in lower growth in exports and weakened prices for raw materials. This was complicated by losses caused by international inflation and the adjustment of oil prices. Debt servicing further reduced the availability of foreign exchange to finance the foreign cost of the development process.
123.	Limitations imposed on growth by world imbalances were attenuated by resorting to foreign indebtedness. During the last 10 years, the pending obligations of developing countries have multiplied more than sixfold: in 1980 they amounted to $370 billion.
124.	In 1973, private financing accounted for more than 50 per cent of those countries' total liabilities, rising to 58 per cent by 1980. This dependency might have possibly been even greater without the active participation of OPEC in international financial cooperation. In contrast, the unfavorable attitude of the industrialized nations with respect to international aid helped create an even greater need for developing countries to seek assistance in private markets.
125.	The volatility of exchange rates and deficiencies in the adjustment, creation and distribution of international liquidity caused by the lack of a real international mone-tary system constitute a set of problems in addition to those attributable to prevailing economic conditions and to structural deficiencies in the world economy, in which the third world as reflected in the Brandt Report3—does not participate effectively in controlling its own development financing.
126.	The major problems of social injustice, unemployment, inflation, production, access of the developing world's manufactured goods to the industrialized nations' markets, the urgent need for women to participate in social life, the increasing organized power of workers and farmers, the need for development models* educational reform, cultural animation and the advance of science and technology—all are problems of capital importance which call for comment.
127.	However, I shall address myself briefly to the problem of hunger, the greatest threat now facing mankind.
128.	On 24 June 1981, a select group of 50 men of science and the arts, winners of the Nobel Peace Prize and of the Nobel Prizes in literature, physics, chemistry, economics and medicine, made a dramatic call. to return to life tens of millions of human beings, dying of hunger and underdevelopment, victims of the political and international economic disorder currently prevailing", and concluded, optimistically, that "it is necessary, without delay, to choose, work, create and live in order to create life".
129.	FAO, in making 16 October World Food Day, has attempted to emphasize the fact that man must become aware of the need for food security, intimately tied to agrarian social reform, the agricultural, productive and technological process, to the fair distribution of surpluses, to poverty, which is the main cause of hunger, and to international solidarity.
130.	We must turn again to the land, to agricultural growth within the positive social framework of integrated rural development, in a joint and sustained effort. Today, two thirds of the world's food comes from the United States, which supplies 50 per cent of the wheat, 50 per cent of the corn and 80 per cent of the soybeans required by the rest of mankind. As for cereals, three quarters of the world's population depend on the United States for their supplies.
131.	The United States dominates "food power". The former French Minister of Agriculture, Mr. E. Pisani, has stated:
"There are five ways of ruling the world: through arms, science, energy, minerals and food. In the first four sectors, the United States is neck and neck with other Powers, but it dominates the world market in staple foods (cereals, sugar and oilseeds). This domination will grow, and the world imbalance will worsen".
That fact increases the social and human responsibility of the United States in a world threatened by hunger.
132.	The developing countries have been asked on several occasions to set as their objective an average yearly increase of 4 per cent in food and agricultural production. This goal has not yet been reached. In the 1970s the effective increase was 3 per cent. These efforts must be constant and persistent, since imported food is very expensive. For example, between 19671969 and 19761978 the volume of cereal imported by the weaker developing countries increased by only 14 per cent, but the prices nearly doubled, and the shipping costs increased fourfold.
133.	Finally, it is worth pointing out that by the year 2000 foreign assistance for agriculture, according to the experts, should reach $10 billion. In contrast, the program for the continuance of world military expenses currently amount!; to $450 billion per year.
134.	I should like to state the five principles which guide the policy of Venezuela in the United Nations as a Latin American country.
135.	First, the problems of Latin America should be solved by Latin Americans, without foreign interference, and without direct or indirect hemispheric or extra-hemispheric intervention.

136.	Second, Latin America's position vis-à-vis the world's great and serious problems should be autonomous, and neither related to nor integrated with the interests of bloc politics.
137.	Third, Latin America should seek agreements with Africa and Asia in the framework of South-South cooperation.
138.	Fourth, Latin America should seek increasing agreements with Africa and Asia, both in adopting a common approach to problems in North-South relations and in assuming positions with respect to the many aspects of the East-West confrontation.
139.	Fifth, Latin America should seek with Africa and Asia the structural reform of international institutions to ensure democratic control of the international community.
140.	The peoples of the third world have growing bar-gaining power and should use it to the maximum to bring about a new international order.
141.	Venezuela and the countries of Latin America and the third world need a secure policy to strengthen our political independence, economic stability, cultural identity and defense against possible aggression.
142.	The present international order is the product of self-seeking nations which have grown old and worn themselves out exploiting us and of new Powers which only attempt to replace them in their negative role.
143.	We are the vigorous expression of the world's youth, the powerful presence of the new age. This new age is growing up in the furrows of history, beautiful in its challenge, and, with God's help and the backing of our peoples, we will respond in greatness.
144.	At the founding of this Organization we proclaimed the need to promote and encourage respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion. We proclaimed those fervent and hopeful principles so that there should be no repetition of persecution and torture and the annihilation of human groups, or of disregard for the most elementary guarantees of dignified coexistence.
145.	Yet political persecution, racial discrimination, religious intolerance, open or concealed genocide, and the drug traffic continue and increase, with no effective possibility of terminating these abuses and prosecuting those responsible. We have not been able to uproot terror and plant firm hope.
146.	This is an Organization of "peace-loving countries". In that spirit it was created, and in that spirit it should continue. That is the spirit that imbues Venezuela's foreign policy in all situations.
147.	Those countries which continually intervene in the internal and external affairs of others and inflict blood- baths on resisting peoples are not lovers of peace.
148.	Those countries which openly trample on fundamental human rights and torture, kill or cause to disappear their presumed or real enemies are not lovers of peace.
149.	Those countries which have built an unfair world which they have held for their own benefit for generations, and which refuse to make the smallest changes to alleviate manifest injustice, are not lovers of peace.
150.	As President of a peaceful and united people, I again express my wishes for peace, a true peace, a peace without pitfalls.
151.	The gap between the more developed and less developed countries cannot be maintained indefinitely.
152.	It cannot be assumed that the dispossessed will for long accept with resignation their gradual and irreversible impoverishment.
153.	The United Nations is the proper forum for the correction of existing wrongs through negotiation. I wished to -be present at this thirty-sixth session of the General Assembly to restate Venezuela's faith in this Organization, and in peace and the hope of achieving peace.
154.	We, the developing countries, constitute a majority in the United Nations, and our solidarity is our most formidable power resource. We hereby give notice that the powerful cannot be endlessly insatiable, nor can the poor and exploited be endlessly patient.
155.	We all need peace to live in justice and liberty, and thus to make of love the highest and most solid spiritual and creative link among men and peoples.


===== Session 37 - 1982 =====
First of all, Sir, I should like on behalf of the 
delegation of Venezuela and on my own behalf to 
congratulate you on your well- deserved election 
as President for this session of the General 
Assembly.
In addition I should like to express our 
apprecia¬tion to Mr. Ismat Kittani for the 
effective manner in which he carried out his 
duties.
I should also like to congratulate Mr. Javier 
Perez de Cuellar on his election as the fifth 
Secretary- General. His credentials, his personal 
qualities and his search for solutions to complex 
problems all indicate that his course of action 
as head of the Secre¬tariat will be a wise one. 
We wish him every success in his major aspiration 
to reactivate the political role which it is 
within the competence of the Secretary- General 
to fulfil.
At the same time it is our duty to transmit to 
Mr. Kurt Waldheim our appreciation for the 
com¬mendable work he did during the 10 years he 
held the post in promoting the United Nations as 
an absolutely essential institution which we need 
to maintain, develop and strengthen.
The report of the Secretary-General oh the work 
of the Organization raises questions of great 
importance and dramatic urgency for Member 
Staffs. Venezuela wishes to praise the frankness 
and direct style reflected in the report and at 
the same time to confirm our absolute adherence 
6o the Charter and our hope that the political 
will of nations will be expressed without 
reticence in favour of collective action for 
peace and security, as stated in that document.
If, as the Secretary-General states in the 
report, we are "perilously near to a new 
international anarchy", that is largely due to 
the constitutional role of the international 
organizations, which has led and leads to 
conflicts between national aims and the goals of 
the Organization, as is pointed out in the report.
Resort to confrontation, violence and war in the 
pursuit of national interests has not 
infrequently been encouraged by the historical 
practices of powerful States and the growing 
scepticism regarding the results of measures 
taken by multilateral organizations whose actions 
towards peace are halted by the very States which 
enjoy privileges within the United Nations.
We believe that the tragic conflict In the South 
Atlantic would not have led to such bloodshed if 
there had been multilateral action towards peace 
and timely attention to the just claims of 
peoples which had suffered from the unpunished 
aggression of the empires that were all-powerful 
in an international order which no longer exists 
today.
The States with the greatest relative power in a 
world living in conditions of a balance of fear 
and the constant risk of a nuclear war can hardly 
expect to consolidate their privileges by 
considering overall relations among peoples in 
terms of their own specific interests. These 
privileges in many cases were acquired at the 
expense of the dignity and the resources of the 
weaker people. As long as justice and respect for 
the nations which represent two thirds of all 
mankind are not reflected in resolute action by 
United Nations organs constant disappointment 
will merely foster a phase of absolute cynicism 
in international relations,.
The consequences of colonialism and 
neo-colonialism have been devastating for peace. 
Venezuela maintains that the continent of Latin 
America should be a reserve of peace. We share 
the feeling of all the fraternal people of our 
hemisphere that the elimination of the colonial 
strongholds which still exist in our hemisphere 
brooks no delay. There is no valid argument for 
any European nation to retain territories, 
authority or troops in America.
In order "to reinforce the protective and 
pre-emptive ring of collective security", as the 
Secretary- General urges in his report, we, the 
Member States without hegemonistic ambitions, 
would like the United Nations machinery to be 
respected and imposed upon ail States equally, 
for disappointment regarding he effectiveness of 
the Organization and the lack of hope of any 
future improvement are caused by the belief that 
the powerful accept mechanisms and deci¬sions 
only when it suits them, and that when it does 
not they create obstacles to them or ignore them.
Serious consideration of practical ways for the 
United Nations to develop its capabilities and to 
be used as a positive institution in the 
promotion of the free and peaceful progress of 
mankind in our time forms part of the 
Secretary-General's plan of action. Venezuela 
considers that his report contains coura¬geous 
ideas and is prepared to respond constructively 
within the possibilities open to it.
My country wishes to point out that the ability 
to use properly the means available today to the 
Organization to tackle the grave problems which 
mankind faces depends decisively on the States 
which have the privilege of being permanent 
members of the Security Council.
We are convinced that the Assembly will adopt 
sensible and just resolutions on the Malvinas, 
the Middle East, apart/ten/ and Namibia, 
ratifying and strengthening previous resolutions 
on those delicate subjects, to mention only some 
of the more striking matters referred to in the 
Secretary-General's report.
If hope and confidence in the United Nations are 
to be restored, ways must be found to make those 
resolutions effective, with the full support of 
the international community, ways which will make 
it possible to overcome the obstacles which 
selfishness and injustice are undoubtedly raising 
in order to prejudice the harmonious coexistence 
of peoples.
The statement made by the President of Venezuela, 
Mr. Herrera Campins, at the thirty-sixth session 
of the General Assembly had as its motto "Faith 
in the United Nations and hope for peace. At 
that time he affirmed that "This is an 
Organization of peace-loving countries'. In that 
spirit it was created, and in that spirit it 
should continue. That is the spirit that imbues 
Venezuela's foreign policy in all situa¬tions."
Venezuela is attending this most important yearly 
exercise of the United Nations at a time when the 
Organization's reputation and effectiveness have 
been shattered. International crises succeed one 
another and continue. One of the problems which 
causes most concern is the situation in the 
Middle East, which has been exacerbated by recent 
events in Lebanon. We are following closely the 
tragic events there, realizing that we live in a 
world in which important and far- reaching events 
cannot be viewed as isolated facts. Violence in 
all its forms is rampant in the region. What has 
happened in Lebanon has shown the extreme cruelty 
to which some will resort
Mass crimes have become a new practice in the 
face of which the international community has 
found itself unable to act. Today the world is 
the victim of an evil game which threatens to 
bring it to catastrophe and chaos, in the absence 
of effective machinery to enable all States to 
live together harmoniously.
Venezuela considers that at this session, more 
than any other, because no other session has been 
held in the shadow of such painful and complex 
circum¬stances, the General Assembly must make an 
effective contribution and find a valid solution 
which will put an end to war and map out as soon 
as possible the road leading to peace. The 
escalation of acts of retaliation seems to be 
uncontrollable, encouraging and increasing the 
use of violence.
As Mr. Herrera Campins said in his speech at the 
thirty-sixth session with regard to the Middle 
East, "peace cannot be achieved nor kept until 
there is a global solution to the conflict 
accepted by all the parties involved and until 
the legitimate rights of both the Palestinian and 
Israeli peoples to live in peace and freedom are 
recognized" [%?/<?., para. PR].
In its international conduct, Venezuela has 
consistently followed a policy of decolonization. 
This attitude is demonstrated by its constant 
support for the innumerable resolutions that have 
been submitted on the subject. Puerto Rico has 
been a special concern of Venezuelans ever since 
the beginning of the struggle for the 
emancipation of Latin America led by our 
Liberator Simon Bolivar. Venezuelans share, with 
a deep-rooted feeling, his ideal that Puerto Rico 
should be a member of the Latin American family. 
We recog¬nize the existence of democratic 
freedoms in that sister island, and we expect 
that its sovereign future will be an expression 
of its people's legitimate right to 
self-determination.
The Government of Venezuela recently took a step 
of great significance in the Held of 
decolonization when it recognized the Democratic 
Arab Sahraoui Republic as a sovereign and 
independent State, one closely linked to Hispanic 
culture.
Venezuela has formally applied for full 
member¬ship in the movement of non-aligned 
countries. Venezuela shares the fundamental 
principles and objectives which brought that 
movement into being and recognizes it as a forum 
in which the majority of the countries of the 
world are represented, thus constituting a force 
to promote peaceful coexistence, economic and 
social development and the political independence 
of its member States.
The twelfth special session of the General 
As¬sembly, which was held at United Nations 
Head¬quarters this year, ended in virtual failure 
because of the Assembly's inability to adopt the 
comprehensive programme for disarmament. The 
results of the special session should serve as a 
lesson for States, particularly nuclear-weapon 
States, which bear the greatest responsibility in 
this field, and they must redouble their efforts 
in the cause of disarmament and see to it that 
those efforts are reflected in concrete action in 
the Committee concerned.
Venezuela is persevering in its policy of 
co¬operation with the countries of Central 
America and the Caribbean. Accordingly, the 
programmes derived from the San Jose Agreement 
remain fully in force. Our commitment to the 
institutionalization of freedom and democracy in 
the area has been maintained without interruption 
and with absolute clarity, as has our rejection 
of interference by bloc politics.
We support the effort of the Government of El 
Salvador, which bore fruit with the exemplary 
civic testimony of the elections held on 28 
March. The people of El Salvador went to the 
ballot boxes in numbers unprecedented in their 
history, bearing witness to their desire for 
peace and their repudiation of violence. 
Venezuela welcomes the happy out¬come of the 
democratic process in Honduras and expresses its 
hope that complete normalization will soon become 
a reality in Guatemala and in Panama.
We reaffirm our unswerving determination to 
co¬operate in the strengthening of peace, 
freedom, justice and a pluralist democracy in an 
area in turmoil where nothing that happens is 
alien to us. In this respect, the President of 
Venezuela, the only head of State invited to 
attend the celebrations marking the third 
anniversary of the Nicaraguan revolution, 
recalled on that occasion the international 
commit¬ment to respect pluralism that the leaders 
of that country had entered into.
The efforts of Venezuela and Mexico with regard 
to the tension between Honduras and Nicaragua are 
being made in the context of a striving for 
peace, freedom and democracy within Latin 
American channels without recourse to foreign 
action.
Venezuela, like many other developing coun¬tries, 
views with profound concern the persistent 
deterioration and swift decay of the 
international economic situation. Nobody is 
unaware of the extreme gravity of those 
developments and their inevitable social and 
political consequences, which are the most 
serious threats to stability, progress and peace 
in the world. It is noteworthy that the most 
recent analyses of the world economy by 
international organizations shows such agreement. 
From a broader and universal perspective, the 
United Nations itself in the 1981¬1982 economic 
survey, when referring to the wide¬spread 
stand-still in the world economic expansion, 
stated that this "slow-down affected all major 
regions and groups of countries, independent of 
their level of development or economic structure. 
The decel¬eration was particularly intense in the 
developing countries".'
Taking a similar view, the report by the UNCTAD 
secretariat categorically affirms that "the 
developing world is facing the gravest economic 
crisis since the Great Depression," and that 
"this is the product of the malfunctioning of the 
economies of developed market-economy countries, 
and has been intensified by the growing disarray 
in the trade and financing systems".
For their part, organizations and specialized 
agencies such as GATT and IMF confirm those 
evalua¬tions. The symptoms of this situation can 
be summarized by the following indicators: low 
growth rates in production, the collapse of 
prices for commodities, the contraction of 
international trade, the revival of protectionism 
and counter trade practices, monetary and 
exchange instability, extensive and sudden 
fluctua¬tions in the balances of payments, 
extraordinarily high levels of indebtedness and 
soaring debt- servicing costs, a pull-back in 
productive investments and a flare-up of 
financial speculation, alarming and rising 
unemployment rates, lowering of expenditures for 
social purposes, growing military costs and an 
acceleration of the arms race by the great Powers.
The situation I have just described is the result 
of contradictory and mistaken economic policies, 
as well as of the disorganization and 
malfunctioning of the world economy in its three 
basic aspects, commercial, financial and 
monetary. The increasingly blatant absence of 
rules and growing arbitrariness make forecasting 
impossible and thus sustain widespread unrest.
Thus, we see how the developed countries, instead 
of strongly encouraging the development of 
exports by the developing countries by just 
remunera¬tion for their commodities, which in the 
long run would have led to a healthy expansion of 
interna¬tional trade for the benefit of all, have 
preferred to finance the imports of the third 
world on scandalously exorbitant terms. The 
effects of those actions are striking: after a 
phase of expansion of international trade, which 
was artificially and pathologically sustained, in 
large measure, by the rising indebtedness of the 
third world, the burden of the corresponding 
financial charges is now being turned against the 
industrialized countries themselves as a result 
of the drastic curtailment of the import capacity 
of the developing countries, which virtually 
eliminates them as factors promoting 
international trade.
The total debt of the developing countries will 
be far in excess of the incredible amount of$6P0 
billion by the end of 1982. This debt imposes 
intolerable burdens on the foreign exchange 
earnings of the developing countries and makes 
them increasingly insolvent. In Latin America 
alone the debt will amount to $280 billion by the 
end of this year. The amortiza¬tion of this debt 
represents the equivalent of 56 per cent of Latin 
American exports. This situation, which in the 
context of traditional conditions is now to be 
reinforced for strategic purposes, could have 
grave political and social consequences.
The situation I have described is an 
unpre¬cedented challenge to the international 
financial system. The developing countries will 
have to make constant efforts to revitalize their 
economies, increase their productivity and 
improve their efficiency in the management of 
financial resources. All this will have to be 
done in a way that will be socially and 
politically bearable.
The developed world must accept its 
responsi¬bilities, not only for the sake of the 
principle of justice, but also in its own 
interest. Financially, it will be necessary to 
preserve the capacity of international 
organizations which supply funds on preferential 
terms. This implies the need to review 
contributions to IMF, the World Bank, the 
Inter-American Develop¬ment Bank and similar 
institutions so that their resources bear some 
relation to the size of existing problems. There 
is one fact which cannot be ques-tioned: the 
economies of the industrialized countries cannot 
be sustained without the support of strong 
development in the third world.
The time for major decisions is drawing near and 
we cannot afford to let slip any opportunity to 
have our voice heard. We, the developing 
countries, must reaffirm by our presence and 
active participation the importance of forums 
such as UNCTAD and must be attentive to what 
might happen at the next GATT ministerial meeting.
We have been fighting for a complete 
restruc¬turing of the international economy, and 
we have denounced the policy of making the 
developing coun¬tries bear the brunt of that 
readjustment. All this has brought the world 
economy to the critical situation in which it 
finds itself today. It would be senseless to 
expect that the steps the situation calls for 
will be taken overnight, just as it has been 
senseless to postpone the essential dialogue. An 
atmosphere of mutual trust must be established to 
contribute to the charting of a new course for 
the world economy. This is a pre-condition of the 
lessening of international tension and the 
building of a more rational and more humane 
world, in which harmony, justice and peace will 
prevail.
The developing countries promoted the idea of 
global negotiations and the international 
community endorsed it when resolution 34/138 was 
adopted by the Assembly in 1979, but so far the 
momentum needed to make them a reality has been 
lacking. Despite all the efforts made—not only by 
the Group of 77 but by practically the entire 
international com¬munity—hesitation, mainly on 
the part of the United States, has prevented the 
launching of global negotia¬tions although these 
were approved at Cancun with the agreement of the 
head of State of that important country, without 
which the negotiations would lose their true 
scope and meaning.
In these circumstances, we, the developing 
coun¬tries, have been thinking about the need to 
be less vulnerable to the dealings of the 
countries of the North and, in any case, to 
stimulate effective co¬operation among ourselves 
as a consequence of our solidarity.
Barely a month ago the Intergovernmental 
Follow-up and Co-ordination Committee, a key 
organ which was established in 1981 in the 
Caracas Pro¬gramme of Action,3 held its first 
meeting in Manila. The results of the meetings of 
experts were reviewed there, and on that basis 
important recommendations were made, to be 
submitted shortly to the ministerial meeting of 
the Group of 77. Without any doubt, it can be 
concluded that the Caracas Programme of Action is 
functioning. It is complementary to efforts which 
might be made in North-South negotiations and a 
contribution to the establishment of the new 
international economic order.
In the last quarter century Venezuela has 
succeeded in consolidating a genuine democracy 
solidly rooted in the conduct and beliefs of the 
Venezuelan people, a democracy which endeavours 
increasingly to play its part within a philosophy 
of social justice and respect for the freedom and 
dignity of all citizens. The promotion and 
effective defence of and respect for human rights 
have been important tenets in the foreign policy 
of Venezuela. These form the basis of our support 
for people that are struggling to gain, maintain 
or recover their right to freedom, as a 
contribution to the solution of present conflicts 
which affect and bar the progress of mankind in 
its quest for peace and well-being for all.
It is of the utmost importance for Venezuela to 
seek a peaceful and practical solution to the 
terri¬torial controversy with the Co-operative 
Republic of Guyana.
Venezuela is a country in which the mixture of 
the indigenous peoples of America with the 
Spanish conquistadors and African groups has 
created a population which rejects all forms of 
racial discrimi¬nation and in which political, 
social and economic democracy is practised, thus 
setting an example of coexistence and pluralism.
It is fitting to recall that Venezuela in its 172 
years of independent life has never had a single 
war, not even an armed encounter, with any of its 
neighbours. This is an assertion which few 
countries in the world could make, and it is a 
source of satisfac¬tion and pride for 
Venezuelans. The land borders of Venezuela with 
Colombia and Brazil were established by peaceful 
means. The maritime borders with four countries 
have already been set by common agreement, and 
Venezuela is at all times opento negotiations 
with its neighbours to solve all matters of 
common interest.
For 16 years now Venezuela has been tirelessly 
repeating its invitation to Guyana to negotiate, 
to seek mutually acceptable solutions to the 
dispute. The cause of the dispute is the 
mutilation of our territory by the British 
Empire. During the last century, starting from 
the Esequibo River, which was the boundary with 
the sector of Guyana which they had taken away 
from Holland, the British advanced from year to 
year, almost day after day, over the territory of 
defenceless Venezuela, making a mockery of its 
protests, until this culminated in an 
unprecedented legal farce, in which a so-called 
Arbitration Tribunal, with no Venezuelan judge or 
lawyer, imposed a totally arbitrary demarcation 
line. It did not even take the trouble to give 
any kind of justification, reason or explanation, 
however spurious or unprecedented, of what was 
from every point of view an unbridled plundering.
The history of this humiliating mutilation cannot 
be forgotten by Venezuelans. Our entire tradition 
and all our instincts move us to desire to 
maintain and develop with the Guyanese people the 
closest relations of friendship, co-operation and 
solidarity. In truth, like ourselves, they were 
the victims of British impe¬rialism and, like 
ourselves, they are a people which is trying to 
achieve development. For this very reason v": 
have insisted tirelessly on holding real and 
sincere negotiations, inspired by justice and 
equity, which will lead us to overcome this 
problem that we have inherited, in a satisfactory 
and practical way.
The obligation for Venezuela and Guyana to 
negotiate their differences is not only a moral 
imper¬ative, not only a duty under international 
law, but, in this specific case, a commitment 
freely entered into in the Agreement signed at 
Geneva on 17 February 1966/ In fact, although the 
Venezuelan territorial claim naturally preceded 
the independence of Guyana, Venezuela, faithful 
to its tradition and to its principles, was most 
careful to do nothing which would in any way be 
used as a pretext to thwart or delay 
decolo¬nization for its neighbouring people. 
Shortly before the proclamation of indepen¬dence, 
Venezuela and the United Kingdom, with the full 
participation of the Government of what was then 
British Guiana, negotiated and signed the Geneva 
Agreement, designed to seek satisfactory 
solutions for the practical settlement of the 
dispute. This international instrument is the 
legal and political framework for the pursuit of 
solutions to the dispute and Venezuela has 
adhered to it in all its actions. A is 
regrettable that thus far the Government of 
Guyana has failed to comply with its obligation 
to negotiate seriously and sincerely. 
Nevertheless, Venezuela has insisted that, within 
the peaceful procedures provided in the Geneva 
Agreement, the injustices of the past should be 
corrected, and thus lay more solid founda¬tions 
for a fruitful and lasting co-operation between 
the peoples of Venezuela and of Guyana.
Guyanese spokesmen have for years been carrying 
out a systematic campaign to incite feelings of 
sympathy, by presenting their country as a small 
and poor nation whose territory is the object of 
the covetousness of a rich and powerful 
neighbour, and trying to create an image of 
Venezuela as an aggressor country, indifferent to 
the laws, to justice, and to the solidarity that 
should exist between countries which are 
struggling to develop. This kind of assertion, 
repeated relentlessly, tends to produce 
prejudices among those who have not had an 
opportunity to know and analyse the facts. For 
almost two decades international forums have been 
hearing Guyanese assertions about an imminent 
aggression, and yet it is an obvious fact that 
there has been no aggression.
We have explained the conduct of Venezuela from 
its birth to independent life and regarding the 
dispute that we are dealing with. There is not 
the slightest basis for asserting that the 
Venezuelan terri¬torial claim is prompted by 
coveting of present or potential riches which the 
people of Guyana could have used to achieve 
prosperity and development. Before the 
independence of Guyana, British companies were 
exploring for and exploiting oil on a large scale 
both in Venezuela and in Trinidad. British 
companies went mining gold in Venezuela and 
bauxite in Demerara. It will be easily understood 
that the British, before liberating their colony, 
had thoroughly eval¬uated the potential oil and 
valuable minerals of the lands that they 
controlled. Although prospecting has continued 
since the date of independence, no exploitable 
mineral resource has been found on the territory 
which Venezuela claims.
The truth is crystal clear: Venezuela's claim is 
based neither on territorial ambition nor on 
covetous- ness of the wealth of others. Had it 
been so based, our claim could never have 
received, as it has, the unanimous support of 
Venezuelans of the most varied political 
tendencies under all democratic Governments, 
which, during the last five presidential terms, 
within a system of complete freedom of 
expression, have defended the rights of our 
country. That is because this unanimity of the 
Venezuelan people has its origin in a very deep 
wound. For this reason, we fail to under¬stand 
those who, representing the Guyanese people, take 
the stand as heirs to the fruits of British 
colonial imperialism and defenders of its 
unjustifiable abuses.
After repeated rejections of our formal 
invita¬tions to the Government of Guyana to begin 
negotia¬tions which will provide a satisfactory 
and practical solution, Venezuela will submit to 
the Secretary- General 3ts decision to indicate a 
means to settle the dispute; thus our conduct 
will be in accord with the letter and the spirit 
of the international treaty signed between the 
parties, known as the Geneva Agreement, with a 
view to finding a solution to the dispute by 
peaceful means.
Venezuela would like Guyana to participate as the 
continent moves towards integration. Venezuela 
wishes to have a positive relationship with its 
neigh¬bour. We feel certain that the people of 
Guyana share that desire. We greet all Guyanese, 
convinced as we are that an appropriate solution 
to the differ¬ences we have inherited from 
colonialism will spur us on our way to 
convergence toward progress and development. 
Venezuela wishes above all to win the battle for 
peace and brotherhood with Guyana, because we are 
neighbours and because in large measure we are 
born of the same American history.
On 24 July 1983 it will be two centuries since 
the birth of the Father of our Venezuelan nation, 
Simon Bolivar, one of the great liberators of 
America. The United Nations, with appropriate 
solemnity, commemorated in 1976 the one hundred 
and fiftieth anniversary of the convening by the 
Liberator Bolivar of the Amphictyonic Congress in 
Panama and in 1980 the one hundred and fiftieth 
anniversary of his death. My country wishes to 
express its gratitude in advance for the tribute 
which will be paid to the Liberator in this 
political forum of the nations of the world on 
the occasion of the bicentenary of his birth.
His prophetic thinking on the need for a 
uni¬versal organization in which matters 
regarding the peaceful coexistence of nations 
could be dealt with has a particular significance 
and pertinence today. Bolivar's bicentenary 
brings all Latin America together in harmony on 
the international scene. It demands that we make 
a constructive effort to make the new hemispheric 
dialogue a shining success. It leads us to 
strengthen our ties with all peoples, especially 
those who have faced historical and political 
challenges similar to those faced by us.
Venezuela reaffirms its absolute loyalty to the 
ideals of Bolivar and commits itself to pursue a 
positive policy in all its actions as regards 
both our hemisphere and the world as a whole.


===== Session 38 - 1983 =====
﻿

120.	 It is no mere formality, Sir, for me to convey to you the satisfaction of my country and my personal pleasure at your election as President. This is not simply because you are a Latin American, because your country is abundantly qualified for that distinction or because you have demonstrated in your every action competence and a vocation to serve which guarantee the successful conduct of our work. Beyond all these relevant facts, it is of very special significance to us that a Panamanian is presiding over the General Assembly in the year when we are commemorating the bicentennial of the birth of the Liberator, Simon Bolivar.
121.	Panama M a permanent testimony to the political genius of Bolivar. The Amphictyonic Congress, convened by him on the Isthmus of Panama in 1826, was the forerunner of this international Organization and of the formulation of the basic rules for the maintenance of international peace and security.
122.	It is appropriate also to convey, on behalf of my country, the sincere gratitude of Venezuelans for the interest shown by this Organization and the representatives of Member States in the commemoration of this important anniversary. Today, more than ever, in the midst of the conflicts and uncertainties which darken the international outlook, the tireless struggle of the Liberator Simdn Bolivar for the freedom of peoples and the dignity of man should be an inspiration to us.
123.	Imbued with this spirit, the heads of State of Venezuela, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia, and you, Mr. President, as the representative of Panama, meeting in Caracas on the anniversary of Bolivar's birth, signed a Manifesto to the Peoples of Latin America, which has been duly distributed to the States Members of the United Nations	It is a reaffirmation of the Bolivarian ideals, as applied to the main current problems of our region.
124.	In our time, those ideals of unity and freedom take on new forms in a variety of links that unite the peoples of the Bolivarian republics; they are to be found with fresh force in relations among American nations; they place us among the developing countries; and they provide the banner under which the final end of colonialism and the prevention of acts of aggression and interference by the great Powers will be achieved.
125.	The ceremony commemorating the bicentennial of the Liberator, held last July here at United Nations Headquarters, was very gratifying to Venezuelans. A former President of Venezuela, Mr. Rafael Caldera, delivered an address, as did representatives of the other countries liberated by Bolivar, and representatives of all the regions of the world.
126.	The wide participation which this commemoration attracted in this Organization' 1 is irrefutable proof that the Bolivarian ideals of independence, self-determination and equality have become realities based on the same aspirations to self-betterment and justice in the brotherhood of peoples of other continents, especially Africa and Asia. It is a clear expression of solidarity among the peoples of the third world.
127.	For us, the accession to independence of the new American nation of Saint Christopher and Nevis and its admission to membership in the United Nations are similarly a source of special satisfaction.
128.	It is profoundly disturbing that situations of force tenaciously persist, without regard for the rights of peoples and individuals.
129.	No objective progress has been achieved regarding the withdrawal of foreign troops from Kampuchea or Afghanistan. Furthermore, Chad has now been added to the list of African countries in the internal problems of which foreign troops are intervening. And the world public seems to have forgotten the existence of an open state of war between Iran and Iraq, although it is now in its third year and could still potentially provoke an uncontrollable conflagration.
130.	The situation in Lebanon gets worse by the hour. It is therefore necessary to assist and support the suffering people of that country to bring that long and tragic quarrel to an end and create an atmosphere conducive to dialogue and detente, so that their most intrinsic values and rights may become effective realities and their nation may regain its territorial integrity and enjoy the free exercise of its sovereignty. To this end, peaceful coexistence and reconciliation must be sought among the various groups which make up the Lebanese nation, and outside influences must be suppressed, since they tend rather to deepen and exacerbate the differences between those groups.
131.	In the mean time, the legitimate aspirations of the Palestinian people are no nearer realization, and South Africa maintains its artificial obstacles to the independence of Namibia.
132.	Understandably, international public opinion is profoundly conscious of these open breaches of world peace, which involve various countries or groups of countries. But we should not forget that peace 3s not just the absence of war. It is far more than that; it is the total absence of any kind of violence. Thus, it would take forever to list every kind and focal point of violence existing within certain States which lead to the proliferation of further major conflicts and in the end reach the international arena.
133.	It is important and useful to use all possible means to prevent these internal disputes since experience has shown that once they reach major proportions there is much less likelihood of finding effective solutions.
134.	In these circumstances, action by the Secretary- General, however energetic and persistent, is not enough to quench all the trees, seeing the scantiness of the means available to him.
135.	The international community must overcome what appears to be a growing indifference to these constant breaches of the peace and the law and give its most resolute support to action by the Organization to restore the disrupted normal conditions.
136.	All Member countries, large and small, individually and collectively, have a contribution to make in this endeavor. Indifference or resignation or the belief that only the super-Powers have solutions to the problems inevitably leads to an aggravation of the conflicts and increases the danger of a final catastrophic confrontation.
137.	What is known as the Contadora initiative, in which joint action is being taken by Colombia, Mexico, Panama and Venezuela to prevent the territory of our Central American brothers from becoming a battlefield for contending blocs, is the peaceful outcome of our conviction that members of the international community must participate in the solution of regional and world problems.
138.	In my opinion there are solid grounds for optimism about the possibility of satisfactory and permanent solutions being found.
139.	In their endeavors, the countries of the Contadora Group have adhered strictly to the principle of nonintervention. Without preconceived ideas or self-seeking, the countries of the Group, always with objectivity and impartiality, have tried to foster the search for solutions which are acceptable to the countries concerned, through dialogue and negotiation.
140.	Non-intervention attains its true expression when it is based on the full exercise of self-determination. Self- determination is the foundation of non-intervention, because, starting from the principle that man is free, it follows that peoples must be free also. There can be no excuse for invoking non-intervention in order to deprive peoples of their freedom, since universal solidarity, whose roots lie in one and the same human condition, prevails over national differences.
141.	If we, the peoples of the third world, have been the most active defenders of non-intervention as a fundamental principle of international order and of coexistence between nations, it hay been precisely because intervention practiced by powerful nations has prevented the will of our peoples from being unreservedly expressed.
142.	Today we consider the principle of non-intervention to mean that every people may exercise its right to self-determination. We cannot accept non-intervention as a rhetorical expedient under the cover of which some people or groups of people thwart the will of the peoples.
143.	In 1979, when the situation prevailing in the Nicaragua of the Somoza dictatorship was being debated in the Organization of American States, Venezuela, in joint action with the other countries of the Andean Pact, pushed for recognition of the principle of solidarity among peoples, superseding national barriers, because what was at stake was the fight for respect for human rights and for the very principle of self-determination of peoples.
144.	Repeated and periodic expressions of the will of the people, free and untrammeled, is a prerequisite for peace among nations. Accordingly, we believe that the establishment of a stable peace in Central America presupposes a sustained thrust to institutionalize democracy in the region.
145.	The Contadora Group, in its efforts, has taken into account the social and economic conditions of the countries in the region. To lessen tensions in the area it is essential to work constantly to overcome the conditions of social injustice.
146.	Political difficulties, the arms traffic, armed uprisings, border tensions, and mistrust heightened by all these  factors, spur on the arms race, which in turn raises the level of tension and absorbs resources which would be better channeled into economic and social development.
147.	The strengthening of democratic institutions in all the countries of the region seems to us to be the way to break this vicious circle; hence our insistence on considering the process of establishing democracy and respect for pluralism as the first step to consolidating peace.
148.	Peace will not necessarily bring freedom; rather it is freedom which will serve as the foundation for peace.
149.	Peace among and within the nations of Central America will be consolidated through an expression of the will of the people. In exercising their right to self- determination, the peoples will find a way to co-exist. Doing away with this consultation of the will of the people, falsifying the results of such consultations or merely ignoring them, are factors which undermine faith in democracy and impel peoples to seek solutions by force.
150.	One cannot therefore invoke the difficulties which in any given situation argue against the practice of consulting the will of the people, because postponement, far from helping to improve the situation, will tend to worsen it and hence to increase the probability of widespread violence.
151.	In the Manifesto to the Peoples of Latin America mentioned earlier, the Presidents of the Bolivarian republics expressed that concept very clearly, pointing out that:
"The systematic and recurrent practice of holding elections not only represents the sole means of legitimizing the exercise of power, but also—through the natural alternation characterizing this system, when accompanied by the necessary safeguards to ensure that the will of the people is effectively expressed through those elections—constitutes the most effective means not only of enabling pluralism to provide a vehicle, for the expression of ideas, tendencies and opinions in the utmost freedom, but also of ensuring that respect for the rights of others on an equal footing with one's own is instilled in the hearts of men and 
becomes a permanent way of life, since this is the only means for society to develop in peace."
152.	The Contadora initiative is an interesting example of sub regional co-operation in an endeavor to solve locally problems of common interest in the face of strong tensions and attempts by power centers outside the sub- region to bring pressure to bear.
153.	We, the Contadora Group countries, are aware of our abilities and our limitations. We want a sub-regional solution, but we are aware of the existence of an East- West confrontation and of the impossibility of bringing it to an end. We are making a great effort to mobilize every country in the sub region, although we realize that we have no power to impose measures or to bring pressure to bear to have them accepted. This is our weakness and at the same time our strength. The Central American countries are beginning to rebuild their confidence, encouraged by the presence of witnesses of good faith who cannot, indeed have no wish or claim to, achieve positions of hegemony.
154.	In this connection, the four heads of State of the member countries of the Contadora Group stated in the Cancun Declaration on Peace in Central America:
"It is also necessary that other States with interests in and ties to the region should use their political influence in helping to strengthen the channels of understanding and should unreservedly commit themselves to the diplomatic approach to peace." 
155.	However, it is not sufficient for the States of the region to act in a constructive manner. It is also essential for all States to refrain from any actions that might further aggravate the conflict. In this sense it is highly regrettable that countries which have never had any major links with the countries of the sub region, and whose interest in it has always been as remote as their geographical position, should display a growing presence on one side or the other, for reasons which are apparently far from real concern for the welfare of the Central Americans.
156.	I should like to express the sincere gratitude of the Government of Venezuela, which is doubtless shared by the other members of the Contadora Group, for the broad support we have received from other Member countries of the United Nations for the efforts being made under the guidance of the heads of State of the four republics.
157.	At the very time when the world is celebrating the 35th anniversary of the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the persistence of that insult to human dignity which is the policy of apartheid, enshrined in the legislation of the South African regime, is particularly painful. Recently my country had the honor of being host to the Latin American Regional Conference for Action against apartheid, organized by the Special Committee against in which Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and eminent public leaders and experts participated. The Declaration, adopted at that Conference, states that
"is an inhuman system of racist domination and exploitation, a negation of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and, indeed, a crime against humanity" . It also proclaims "the
solidarity of the Governments and peoples of Latin America with the Governments and peoples of Africa in their struggle for the total emancipation of their continent and for peace, freedom and justice".
158.	We are proud that this solidarity was proclaimed at Caracas, and we are proud to have been of use to a cause which we defend and understand, because reason and truth are its foundations and because we do not understand how the stability of a society can be based on the" degradation of human dignity. 15. in reiterating our determination to continue a constant fight against racism and racial discrimination, and to give our firmest co-operation to the international and regional crusade against apartheid, we recall with admiration a man who is today the symbol of the struggle against racial prejudice and who is for that reason serving a sentence of imprisonment in South Africa— Nelson Mandela, who is under detention for fighting the apartheid regime and for advocating justice and human rights and the rights of peoples, and who was denied permission to participate in the ceremony conferring upon him the Simon Bolivar International Prize of UNESCO.
160.	The South African regime's scorn for world public opinion is not limited to its practice of racism. In addition, it includes a recalcitrant attitude to the demand for the independence of Namibia. The Secretary- General's efforts to achieve progress in this difficult situation have our fullest support.
161.	The lack of progress on disarmament causes Venezuela grave concern. We view disarmament as the necessary means to ensure and maintain international peace and security, since the present balance of power, based on the possession of the largest possible number of weapons, far from bringing us the security that we all seek, is leading us step by step towards an ever more precarious situation, which could end in the outbreak of a nuclear war, with the devastating results that we fear. Unfortunately, the present situation is characterized by a deadlock in the negotiations intended to achieve partial agreements on disarmament, and indeed it even seems that we have lost ground in comparison with the slight advances achieved earlier.
162.	The growing confrontation between the two most powerful countries on earth is a drama that is being watched with alarm by the other countries of the world, whose only means of action is to raise their voices to call for the return to sanity. This anxiety-ridden atmosphere has just been tragically emphasized by the destruction by the Soviet air force of a passenger aircraft of Korean Air Lines. This act, totally unjustifiable in any circumstances, might have been avoided had there been a different climate in relations between the main power centers.
163.	The world economic crisis, which has a particularly serious effect on the developing countries, has impelled those countries recently to undertake intensive efforts in the Held of international economic relations. The need to deal with this situation is being urged at many forums and meetings, and there are insistent calls for appropriate study and action on what is now the decisive question for the future of mankind and for world peace.
164.	It has been pointed out repeatedly that the present crisis is structural. It has been demonstrated that it is neither the result of temporary conditions nor a cyclical phenomenon and that there is no chance of recovery— perhaps even of survival—unless consistent emergency and long-term measures are taken to bring about profound changes in structures and to transform the whole economic system.
165.	The efforts made by the developing countries have been seriously affected. We are facing simultaneously a fall in the prices of raw materials, a rise in the prices of manufactured imports, intensified protectionism and high interest rates in the developed countries. High interest rates in particular have been a determining factor in the loss of equilibrium in the balance of payments of the developing countries, with a corresponding effect on their possibilities of economic and social progress.
166.	There has been repeated condemnation of the fact that the minimum targets for international co-operation have not been met. This failure, among other things, has led increasingly to recourse to international loans, which today amount to the overwhelming sum of 630 billion United States dollars, with the result that about 40 per cent of the export earnings of developing countries is absorbed by the servicing of that debt.
167.	Furthermore, production growth rates have fallen, both in the developing countries and in the industrialized world. In 1982 the value of world trade fell by 6 per cent. In addition, commodity prices fell further to record low levels, and their real value fell to the lowest level for the past 50 years; this helped to lower inflation, but only in the developed countries.
168.	Added to this were protectionist and discriminatory policies which have created a concentration of power, thus preventing the developing countries from exercising their right to participate on an equal basis in international trade.
169.	During the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, held at Belgrade, a set of measures was proposed which could have made a significant contribution to the restructuring that we are discussing. We all know that once again an opportunity has been lost. That is why we feel impelled to point out to the Powers which bear the most responsibility, which exercise the most influence, that they made a mistake in not understanding the urgency of the situation or the pressing need for multilateral action as the only sensible and effective way to find solutions.
170.	Nor have we succeeded in launching the global negotiations, because of the negative attitude of the greatest economic Power in the world. This attitude has precluded any move towards a harmonious and coherent outcome of the crisis, towards a scheme based on the co-operation and understanding which is the very spirit of the world Organization and of the system of specialized and regional agencies.
171.	The developing countries, on the other hand, have shown great flexibility, and have changed many of their own proposals with a view to undertaking joint coherent action to assist national efforts. But national efforts cannot replace a global approach, with full and responsible participation by both developing and developed countries.
172.	A major part of our collective efforts has been devoted to strengthening and implementing the Caracas Programme of Action of May 1981.7 We have singled out many fields in which there are both opportunities and complete readiness to co-operate: trade, food and agriculture, energy, raw materials, financing, industrialization and technical co-operation.
173.	One can envisage the immense possibilities for mutual assistance offered by complementarity both now and in the future. While at Caracas we believed that the potential was already there, two and a half years after our fruitful meeting we have not only confirmed this fact, but have also realized that there is an extraordinary and deep-seated will not only to strengthen co-operation, to have closer links, but to translate our decision to achieve solidarity into reality.
174.	In Latin America we have worked hard to strengthen co-operation and broaden economic relations among the countries of the region, particularly in the Andean area, where we have established what is perhaps the most important integration scheme in the developing world.
175.	The Andean Pact seeks not only to improve the domestic standards of living in the member countries but also to prepare a collective position that will enable us to incorporate this group of countries into the scheme of international economic relations within more equitable parameters.
176.	The international crisis itself and the indifference of those who do not feel its adverse effects as we do compel us to redouble our efforts. This was placed on record in the Declaration on Sub regional Integration issued by the Andean Presidents, in July of this year, and I quote:
"We have decided to give fresh impetus to the process of integration by revising its goals, updating its programmes of action in the international and subregional contexts and improving its instruments, drawing on the experience gained in the 14 years since the signing of the Cartagena Agreement. We are convinced that the strengthening of Andean integration will significantly bolster Latin America's efforts to meet the challenges created by the crisis." 
177.	The President of Venezuela, Luis Herrera Cam- pins, has devoted special attention to solving the economic and social problems we are facing today. His active participation in the most important efforts to correct North-South inequality is widely known. His view of the economic problems of development and of relations between the North and South has always been framed in a spirit of dialogue and understanding. His most recent statements on this important topic were made in Caracas at the opening of the conferences at the ministerial level of the Inter-American Economic and Social Council of the Organization of American States and of the Council of the Latin American Economic System. At these Conferences we were able to assess the efforts made to find solutions and make proposals for the solution of both regional and global problems. At the first of those meetings, President Herrera Campins said:
"We want concerted solutions, which should proceed from the need to determine the real causes— structural and circumstantial—of the crisis, so that the formulas for solutions approved here will have a more solid foundation, solutions which are to be transmitted to the Inter-American Economic and Social Council for final approval.
"We are not asking anything of the industrialized countries that would be beyond the realm of what is possible and proper."
178.	The results of that meeting offer a glimmer of light in the darkness that characterizes the attempts at a systematic North-South dialogue that would make it possible to lay the foundation for a more just economic order based on solidarity. This was emphasized by President Herrera Campins a few days later at the opening of the meeting of the Council of SELA to which we referred earlier, when, in summing up the achievements of the Special Conference on External Financing of the Organization of American States, he said:
"It is worthwhile recalling that it was the calm, firm and constructive presence of Latin America in that North-South hemisphere scenario which made it possible, albeit somewhat hesitantly, to pry open the doors to a dialogue with the United States of America which we believe is necessary and cannot be delayed. To achieve unanimity in approving the 'Bases for an Understanding', with all the conceptual burden of that formulation, represents a very important step which will have most far-reaching effects in the years to come, provided that we know how to conduct ourselves in unity and with flexibility in undertaking the major tasks the times demand of us."
179.	Along the same line of regional action, an important event was the meeting of personal representatives of heads of State and Government of Latin America and the Caribbean, which was held at Santo Domingo at the beginning of last month to prepare a Latin American economic conference that, on the initiative of the President of Ecuador, is to be held at Quito this year.
180.	If we arrive at an overview of the efforts that we Latin Americans are pursuing, we can see that to the aforementioned initiatives by Contadora, SELA, the Andean Pact and the coordinated activities within the inter-American organizations, we have to add other sub- regional efforts and initiatives, such as those carried out in conjunction with the Latin American Integration Association, the Caribbean Community, the Treaty for Amazonian Co-operation, as well as those of the River f ate Basin Treaty and the Agreement of San Jos6. All of this makes us aware of how our family of nations is setting an active example in its quest for solidarity and co-operation.
181.	We have noted with interest the documents submitted to us on the Malvinas Islands, which reaffirm the obligation of the parties to negotiate on the question of sovereignty.
182.	The outcome of the tragic confrontation in the South Atlantic should in no way lead the United Kingdom to think that the successful use of force has created the slightest right in its favor or has in any way obliterated the illegality of its possession of the Malvinas Islands. As the English themselves are wont to say, "Two wrongs do not make a right". For Venezuela, neither the passage of time nor any other circumstance can legalize the occupation by extra-continental Powers of any territory of the American republics which are already independent.
183.	For this reason of principle, Venezuela will never accept the consolidation of the plunder of which our territory was a victim after independence, at the hands of the British Empire. At the same time, Venezuela cannot lose sight of the fact that its principal interlocutor at present is no longer the British Empire, the perpetrators of the seizure, but the sister-nation of Guyana, whose people was likewise a victim of colonialism and which, like Venezuela, has to face the difficult problems which confront all developing countries.
184.	Venezuela has acted in this spirit from the very moment that Guyana acceded to independence. It has always sought to present its legitimate claims with a view to a peaceful settlement, in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Charter of the United Nations. Thus, in 1966, we signed the Geneva Agreement/ whereby both countries committed themselves to finding satisfactory solutions for the practical settlement of the territorial problem.
185.	It is regrettable that through the years which have gone by since then, the Government of Guyana has not had the breadth of vision to realize that sincere and frank negotiations with Venezuela on the final settlement of the problem which both countries inherited, besides being fair and right, would also be in the best interests of both peoples.
186.	The Geneva Agreement to which I have already referred made provision for the parties to request assistance from the Secretary-General of the United Nations in finding a peaceful means of solution. This procedure is now under way and the Government of Venezuela is particularly pleased to note that thanks to the efforts of the Secretary-General both personally and through the effective intermediary of the Under-Secretary-General for Special Political Affairs, there are positive signs which seem to warrant optimism regarding the establishment of a propitious climate in relations between our two countries for finally reaching a satisfactory practical settlement which will put an end to the dispute in a peaceful and friendly way.
187.	America and the world are commemorating the bicentennial of the birth of the Liberator Simon Bolivar. He gave us not only freedom and independence, but also an enduring ideal, which neither fades nor withers, which cannot be extinguished or altered. "Bolivar still has much to do in America", said Jose Marti. Proof of this lies in the splendid practical results of Bolivarian ideals. Bolivar is still present in relations between nations, in the promotion of equality and the prevention of subjugation. He is present in multilateral diplomacy on the side of the weak and developing peoples of the third world. Bolivar is here in the United Nations as the standard-bearer in the struggle to put an end to colonialism, prevent great- Power aggression and interference, seek a peaceful settlement of conflicts and defend human rights and public liberties. Bolivar is also present in the United Nations specialized agencies in the efforts to improve the terms of trade, prevent economic exploitation, defend industrial workers and farmers and improve health and education, because he anticipated the structure and philosophy of the organizations which sustain the progress and improvement of the human condition.
188.	When there is a tragic world crisis, a financial and economic crisis, a monetary and commercial crisis, crisis of political values and ideological concepts, a crisis of social and economic programmes, a moral crisis characterized by the weakening of ethical values and the invasion of pragmatic practices, a crisis of faith in the ideals of civilization and culture, an overwhelming crisis because of the technological supremacy of the most destructive offensive weapons man has ever devised, I invoke the name of Simon Bolivar as a shield, an ideal, a safeguard of the preservation of freedom, peace, order and progress for our peoples and for all mankind. Two hundred years after his birth, the Liberator is here, showing us the way and illuminating it with his example.


===== Session 39 - 1984 =====
﻿It is my pleasure to extend to you, Sir, in the name of the people and the Government of Venezuela, my sincere congratulations upon your election as President of the General Assembly at its thirty-ninth session. Your personal qualifications and your broad experience in the United Nations serve as a firm guarantee that important and fruitful results will be achieved during the deliberations of this Assembly.
3.	We have intimate knowledge of your vigorous efforts as President of the United Nations Council for Namibia and of your tireless labours on behalf of the freedom and independence of peoples. Zambia and Venezuela have worked together in the struggle against colonialism and racial discrimination, and this has certainly helped strengthen relations between our two countries.
4.	I should also like to pay a tribute to that distinguished Latin American who preceded you, Sir, in this important office and who represented his country in the United Nations for many years. I refer, of course, to the President of the sister Republic of Panama, Mr. Jorge Illueca.
5.	It is also a special pleasure for me to greet most respectfully the Secretary-General, my old friend and the former Ambassador of Peru to Venezuela, and to congratulate him for the efficient and outstanding way in which he has shouldered his responsibilities in the promotion of peace and understanding among all peoples.
6.	I come from a Latin American country whose people enjoy fully the inalienable rights of an open, pluralistic and democratic society which, in the daily exercise of freedom, seeks unceasingly to perfect its institutions. We have chosen such a system because of its great potential and because we are convinced that no other system can guarantee with so much integrity the aspirations and development of the human person.
7.	I have come here today to voice the views and feelings of Venezuela before this great world forum that is the United Nations and to set forth and share with the General Assembly some thoughts that we deem essential on the international situation. I shall also outline broadly the fundamental elements of my Government's foreign policy, which is that of the Venezuelan people.
8.	My presence here in the General Assembly is unequivocal testimony to Venezuela's firm commitment to the United Nations and of our appreciation of its vital achievements in international affairs. Moreover, I have come here with the conviction that dialogue and an exchange of ideas are truly indispensable elements when we have our common interests at heart. I have made it a point to follow this approach in my own country, as it is without doubt the most useful means of nurturing understanding and promoting a convergence of views.
9.	We Venezuelans are a people with democracy in our blood, possessed of broad vision and a deep- rooted vocation for peace, who believe that under-standing among States and international co-operation are possible. We are, in sum, a small nation convinced that only in this manner will form and content be given to human solidarity and encouragement and meaning to the concerted efforts of all peoples.
10.	Thus, I echo the unanimous opinion of Venezuelans when I state squarely that Venezuela has faith in the United Nations, in the reasons for its establishment and in the relevance of its principles, which are more valid and necessary today than ever before. That is why we stand firmly with those who support its strengthening, to prevent it from becoming a purely symbolic institution of frustrated hopes and dreams crushed by selfishness, in many ways an impotent institution, incapable of properly facing up to the challenges and demands of today's reality.
11.	We cannot conceive of a world without the United Nations. However, serious obstacles weaken its effectiveness and credibility. If we interpret current events correctly, those obstacles serve to highlight the risks facing the international community when an organization such as this is under-mined, neutralized and, as a result, immobilized. This situation tests the will of the States Members and their capacity for the settlement of conflicts in a civilized manner. A change in course is therefore necessary because it is easy to see that while the problems are getting worse, the mechanisms for resolving them are weakening. States should not relinquish their prerogatives nor should countries give up their vital interests, but in the final analysis the overriding goals of the international community as a whole should prevail.
12.	The objectives enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, adopted at San Francisco, have tended to fade away as the military Powers have increased their antagonistic policies, with the result that we now live in a system of political supremacy and nuclear intimidation, and of economic privileges in the hands of a limited number of States.
13.	Smaller countries like mine, Venezuela, have legitimate reasons to express our disappointment, to call for proper compliance with the purposes and principles of the United Nations, and to demand the correction of a process which, in our view, has been the object of a historic distortion by those Powers which played a major role in the creation of the Organization, steering it away from its original course and promoting, paradoxically, an international pattern of unilateral advantages and faits accomplis
14.	Since 1945, history has been warning us persistently of the risks confronting the world community. The nuclear arms race, which makes us all increasingly vulnerable, seems uncontrollable, while consuming huge resources and absorbing a great deal of sophisticated scientific research. The world is evolving towards a modus Vivendi which curtails the possibilities for international peace, security and confidence, condemning the relations between States to a simplification of the East-West dialectic, in the search for mutual expediency between the interested parties which, naturally, resist change.
15.	At the same time, the lack of understanding and the resistance of the industrialized countries conspire against any effective progress towards global economic relations grounded in equity and mutual benefit. More serious yet, attempts are often made to accentuate the already existing disparities between the North and the South through renewed pressure mechanisms, all in a climate of intransigence and unilateralism.
16.	We are, thus, in the midst of a rarefied international environment, of constraints and established positions resistant to change because they are kept in place by strong interests and by dogmas of one stripe or another.
17.	In times of crisis and tension one must speak unambiguously, in a dispassionate and objective manner. An inescapable conclusion then stands out: things cannot continue the way they are. Bold and constructive attitudes are required of the community of nations to chart a new course for international affairs, giving rise to political evolution, social and economic development, and equality of opportunity. We demand such a change of course in international life and in relations between States, which would resolve the great paradox of the world in which we live—an era of contradictions and ambivalence, of amazing scientific and technological advances, and yet a time of lack of imagination and of declining resolve to use those resources for the good of mankind in a way consistent with the most elementary aspirations for peace and justice and worthy of the essential yearnings of the human condition.
18.	We are aware of our possibilities and our limitations, of what we can and cannot do. We know what our aspirations are, and in order to attain our goals countries like Venezuela are accepting challenges unprecedented in history. We are also aware of our faults and of our mistakes.
19.	We have the moral strength to recognize our weaknesses as well as the honesty to assign clear and b-sic responsibilities to those whose duty it is to assume them. The General Assembly reflects in its resolutions and decisions a ground swell of opinion that cannot be ignored, for that would be to ignore the real concerns of our peoples.
20.	In the general context of international relations, Venezuela has spared no effort to contribute to a rapprochement and reconciliation of positions and to the search for solutions to various regional problems in the geographic area of our direct interest. This we shall continue to do, conscious that indifference is incompatible with our ideas and convictions.
21.	We shall increase our participation in international affairs because we are convinced that interdependence is an irreversible phenomenon and that decisions are made on a global scale which affect the internal affairs of our countries, particularly the smaller ones, which are more vulnerable to external factors. In this context, we believe that a multilateral approach which takes into account the interests of all is the right course to follow.
22.	We can only hope that the economic co-operation taking place between developing countries will be complemented by increasing co-operation between them and the developed countries with a view to promoting the new international economic order. The collective self-confidence of developing countries, while promoting a more efficient use of our own resources, may also help to counteract our vulnerability and ensure a more harmonious development process.
23.	After 25 years of vigorous democracy, we Venezuelans know what our priorities are in the international sphere. Our foreign policy is therefore a reflection and an expression of the values and aspirations which drive us to uphold and defend our democratic way of life as set forth in our Constitution—namely, respect for human rights and repudiation of colonialism and racial discrimination, both of which run counter to Venezuelan convictions and our historical legacy. The aim of my Government is to intensify our involvement in all these matters. To this end we shall sponsor at Caracas in 1985 an international forum on human rights in recognition of the fortieth anniversary of the United Nations. This will serve as an opportunity to take stock of all that has been achieved to date and to shed light wherever darkness still persists as an impediment to human progress and the rights of mankind every-where.
24.	Everything related to the fundamental rights of the individual takes on greater importance day by day and arouses the strongest interest. In the broadest sense we are referring not only to the rights of the individual as such but also to the rights of the individual in society, to the rights of peoples to a more just and equitable distribution of wealth. In our opinion, it is not possible to lose sight of these implications when discussing such issues.
25.	We attach special importance to democratic processes throughout the world and in particular to those in our own region. I wish to emphasize the special gratification of Venezuelans as they observe the strengthening of democratic processes in Latin America. Let there be no doubt about it: the process of democratization enables nations to reach firm understandings, to agree upon common struggles and to achieve consensus in the search for a common voice.
26.	Venezuela is above all a country whose vocation is essentially Latin American. Sim6n Bolivar's writings are very revealing of this attitude. We feel that we are linked fraternally with the peoples and countries of the region, a region whose boundaries bind rather than divide. Unquestionably, we have sometimes stumbled on the road to integration; some of the obstacles were of our own making, others were foreign. It would seem that the time has now come for us to conduct a self-examination, to explore with greater determination our own possibilities for mutual exchange and balanced well-being. The great challenge of Latin America continues to be that of shaping a community of nations capable of resolving our ancient and complex problems without intervention by outside elements that seek to involve us in strategic confrontations.
27.	In fact, however, our part of the world—Latin America and the Caribbean, the Utopian Arcadia of modern times—has not been able to avoid confrontation, and we look with dismay at what is happening in Central America. It is no longer a matter of minor differences between our countries but rather an obvious attempt by one Power or another to use those differences to further its own position in the world.
28.	Latin Americans cannot accept the fact that their misfortunes should be multiplied to benefit schemes for foreign domination. We must ensure that this danger is averted, but in so doing we must not allow Latin America to become an area of confrontation in this difficult period of history.
29.	We have shown what we can and must do in our region. The experience of the Contadora Group has been useful, and it has been accepted generally both within and outside the region as a suitable mechanism for assisting in the settlement of these complex Central American conflicts on the basis of the consolidation of peace, freedom, democratic plural-ism and economic and social development of a region which has suffered unceasingly from within and without throughout history. Four Latin American countries have worked together with the countries involved in an unprecedented effort to help solve a potentially dangerous situation. Those efforts came to fruition with the formulation of the revised Contadora Act on Peace and Co-operation in Central America	and the outcome is now in the hands of the Governments of the countries of the region.
30.	To be frank, I believe that there are those who are interested in peace and those who are interested in war. Time will tell soon enough who these are. In any event, the Venezuelan Government is convinced that only through a process of political development based on democracy can lasting peace and just economic and social development for Central America be assured.
31.	I am concerned lest we may be on the verge of exceeding the limits of political and social tolerance among the developing countries, which are suffering from the high unemployment rates and foreign imbalances that affect all of us to one degree or another. At the same time, there is a deterioration of international economic relations. We, the Members of the United Nations, have been unable to meet on common ground and, incredible as it may seem, we have forgotten the lessons of a not-too-distant past. I refer, of course, to the great depression of the 1930s.
32.	The seriousness of the crisis we are experiencing makes it necessary for us to rethink the role the
United Nations system plays in the area of international economic co-operation and, more specifically, the negotiation strategies which have been followed to resolve world economic problems. In addition to the economic crisis, we are witnessing a breakdown in communications, intransigence and an uncompromising defence of anachronistic attitudes.
33.	We are witnessing a process wherein certain powerful countries are continually postponing dialogue, which is tantamount to refusing to negotiate. This situation, in the global dimension as well as in a problem-by-problem approach, can result in some-thing we all wish to avoid: confrontation. It is clear that at this critical time the responsibility falls upon all of us, and we wish to share it in order to lay the foundations for a better future for all. We have no choice but to live up to the challenges of the hour.
34.	The peoples of the third world demand just changes, without delay. They demand efforts and results, of benefit to all.
35.	As an additional factor in the historical problems of injustice in international economic relations, we are faced today with an extremely serious situation, perhaps the most serious in recent history. The amount of foreign debt of the developing nations is so overwhelming that its consequences affect their very political and social stability; the dimensions of the debt problems alone require the most far-reaching understanding. We are dealing here with issues which, because of their intimate links to the price collapses in the export market for raw materials, the increasing protectionism of the industrialized countries, the irrational rise in interest rates—whose slight variations, a result of manipulations by the world financial market, undermine our social programmes—all contribute to the weakening of recovery efforts, denying work to millions of Latin Americans and condemning them to a marginal existence. And that is only one example.
36.	It is inexcusable that the economies of Latin America, which, to a greater or lesser degree, have been under tremendous pressure, in the lean year of
1983	alone transferred $30 billion to the industrialized countries. Plainly and simply, this is a disaster for our economies. We therefore must consider new and unprecedented approaches. The responsibility for this situation is not that of the debtor countries alone, but also of the international banking system, the lender countries and the international financial organizations. No one should nor can escape this responsibility. No one can feign indifference and stand aside when it comes to seeking solutions to a problem of such magnitude.
37.	These concepts and opinions form the basis for the action agreed to recently by Latin American countries in the Cartagena Consensus of 22 June 1984 which refers to the problem of the foreign debt.
38.	To sum up, the foreign debt of the developing countries is a reflection of specific shortcomings in the area of global financial and monetary relations, and generally in the economic system prevailing since the Second World War.
39.	That is how we Venezuelans see the foreign debt problem. It is part of a gradual breakdown in the world economic system over more than a decade, a process of decay whose most vivid expression is the debt situation in Latin America today. The problem has ramifications which extend beyond the countries 
of Latin America and other developing regions. If, therefore, we do not address ourselves to this issue in a timely manner, with political sensitivity to the problems of the affected countries, the whole world economy could founder in a crisis of incalculable proportions. Let us not forget the dangers which could be triggered by these phenomena, among which interdependence is also an undeniable fact.
40.	I have stated that the problem of our inappropriately incurred debt cannot be divorced from the process of our development, because our development must continue. Otherwise, it will run down and stagnate, creating conditions that are in contradiction with our vision of society and the role of democratic government. Development is a vital necessity for our peoples. Without it there is no justice, no security, no peace, no prospects for a well-integrated nation.
41.	In order to attain these goals, Venezuela has embarked upon a process of readjustment, and this has meant enacting stem measures. Nevertheless, we have taken special pains to ensure that the burden of this readjustment is carried equally by all, so that the poor do not shoulder the greatest portion of that burden for the nation's economic recovery programme. These decisions have been made within the context of national dialogue and consultation, a process which has ensured that all Venezuelans understand the nature of the problems at hand and work to overcome them. This we shall all pursue with conviction and determination.
42.	I find it appropriate to state here in this international forum that the sacrifices required to overcome this pervasive crisis must be assumed both by the developing countries, as we have seen, and by the industrialized countries. In one way or another, the developing countries are financing the deficits of the industrialized countries, or a good part of them, while, as a consequence, our peoples continue to go through crisis after crisis. It is obvious that there is a paradox here, which is irrational and without explanation or justification
43.	The reordering of the world economy must be governed by the principle of fairness. The industrialized countries cannot escape the need to correct their own external imbalances and budgetary deficits. It is obvious that the industrialized countries, in a crisis that they themselves have created, are in a better position than the developing countries to carry out a process of readjustment. The capacities of the developing nations are so limited that whatever measures they take in this respect could unleash political and social traumas that could seriously undermine their stability.
44.	That is why there is an urgent need to ensure understanding and to substantially alleviate the situation of the third world's foreign debt. Otherwise, the economic recovery of the economically most powerful countries, which to a large extent takes place at the expense of the economically weaker countries, would be seriously compromised and might have a much higher future cost for those countries, because, inevitably, even more serious measures would be required, with world-wide implications that could affect collective security and stability.
43. Venezuela has been renegotiating its external debt within the framework of its intention to fulfil its national contractual obligations. We intend to develop an economic programme that is truly Venezuelan, a programme that will permit us to fulfil our commitments abroad without impairing our capacity )for economic and social development and our sovereign decision-making ability. I have made clear on various occasions that in no circumstances, nor as a result of any sort of pressure, will we accept conditions that could jeopardize the potential for development and well-being to which my countrymen are entitled. That is my commitment to the Venezuelan people, and especially to the poor and least fortunate among them.
46.	Having established the bases for refinancing our external debt, we deem it appropriate to make the following comments.
47.	The instability of interest rates creates an extremely risky situation for the developing countries. Whenever the rates are high, it is virtually impossible for a country to make payments servicing its external public debt without imposing on the general population unacceptable sacrifices with regard to their standard of living.
48.	Today the principal creditors of the developing countries are large, private, multinational banks. This has had enormous implications for their respective domestic financial markets. Therefore, today, more than ever before, it is necessary for the monetary authorities of the industrialized countries to involve themselves actively in the problem.
49.	It is important to avoid the long-term incapacitation of debtor countries that are trying to live up to their commitments. Such incapacitation would en-danger the continuity of financial loans, which are fundamental to world banking.
50.	For a solution to be viable and successful, the individual viewpoints and needs of everyone involved must be taken into consideration. For that reason, the solution should be the result of a concert-ed effort.
51.	The various mechanisms proposed have a common denominator: they all require the indispensable participation of Governments and international monetary organizations. It is impossible to imagine the achievement of a solution with only the debtor countries and creditor banks negotiating.
52.	Along with many Latin Americans, we Venezuelans are deeply concerned about the problems of drug trafficking and the illegal use of drugs, which have reached alarming proportions in many countries during recent years. The increasing scope of this problem has turned drug trafficking into a social calamity which must be fought with determination and courage at all levels and with every tool available to us—public and private, national and international.
53.	Drug trafficking goes so far as to attempt to destabilize Governments through corruption, making use of all kinds of criminal elements, tying them into an intricate network of operations, conspiracies and complicities which involve all levels of society, from subversives of the left and right to the most affluent and most impoverished of our citizenry, striking at the very heart of public life. Its penetration is limitless and has reached such a magnitude that, as we stated recently at Quito, drug trafficking not only represents a threat to the national security and sovereignty of several countries but is also turning into a dangerous agent of international conflicts.
54.	It is our firm belief that in order effectively to combat the scourge of drug trafficking and the illegal use of drugs, it is necessary to go directly to the 
source, to the places where the raw materials are cultivated and where they are transformed into narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, and thus to strengthen even more decisive action at the main consumer centres.
55.	Governments can no longer consider this as simply a political issue or a public-health problem limited to each State. It is time that we recognize it for what it is—an international problem, with wide- ranging social, economic and political implications.
56.	Since becoming President of Venezuela, I have devoted particular attention to this issue, because in my capacities as a physician and a political leader I understand its devastating implications, its social consequences and its effects on youth, our most valuable resource. I recently promulgated in my country the Organic Law of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, which fully reflects the firm intentions of my Government and all sectors of the country to combat this dangerous phenomenon.
57.	The domestic measures that we are adopting will, of course, be insufficient if we cannot count on suitable international mechanisms to facilitate the co-operation necessary to combat efficiently and globally this tremendous problem which repudiates the most fundamental rights of man. That is why Venezuela, at both national and international levels, is committing its resources so forcefully in this direction. In this respect, we have proposed for consideration by the United Nations and other appropriate international organizations the creation of a special fund to provide assistance in an efficient and flexible way to developing countries affected by drug trafficking. This proposal is embodied in the Quito Declaration against Traffic in Narcotic Drugs, of 11 August 1984. That Declaration reflects the decision of the international community to classify as an international crime against humanity all activities related to the illegal trafficking in drugs.
58.	I cherish the hope that this session of the General Assembly will provide the appropriate opportunity to look deeply into this serious problem. It is a problem that requires a decisive response, and it is one that can be eradicated only through an unequivocal commitment to multilateral action. Venezuela is prepared to make its contribution in all fields of necessary action. Day after day, drug traffickers cross borders. There is no nation in this world that working alone can eliminate the serious political and social problem that drug trafficking constitutes.
59.	We Venezuelans are not immune to the effects of the crisis currently afflicting our world—and I am not referring solely to the economic upheavals and political conflicts; they are only some of the consequences of the breakdown of moral values in the world today.
60.	There is no doubt in my mind—and others have said this before me—that during these last few decades when man has triumphed technologically and scientifically he has experienced a concomitant weakening of the metaphysical roots which anchor him and give meaning to both his joy and sorrow, his life and death.
61.	While this feeling of helplessness has engendered among those in the developed world a sense of bewilderment and alienation from life's most basic pleasures, it has brought about even more dramatic results in our countries. Material remuneration, with which others compensate for the relative emptiness of their lives, serves but to highlight the glaring social differences which persist in our societies and the lack of understanding that already exists between the emerging nations, which are persistently trying to be understood, and those countries which still have a preponderant influence in world affairs. How do we integrate, without causing suffering, the countries of the third world into the mainstream of contemporary life or at least minimize the spiritual anguish that accompanies such change? That is the great problem which faces the leaders of the nations that form the majority in today's world. We can and must contribute to the building of a civilization that is more human and more positive.
62.	Progress in all fields of human endeavour has always fallen short of the great Utopias which, from time immemorial, have fed humanity's hopes and dreams. If it were possible to probe the opinions of men and women all over the world, we would undoubtedly find that the great majority would condemn the confrontation dividing the world com-munity today. The two poles of power which are attempting to divide up the world for themselves are but a manifestation of the moral bankruptcy of our times. Once again, the lust for power—the oldest and strongest passion of mankind—clothed as always in doctrine, returns with its eternal message of misery and uncertainty.
63.	A nineteenth-century philosopher once postulated that the happiest periods for mankind have been blank pages in the book of life—in other words, periods in which neither creative activity nor intense searching occurred. But we are not living in such a happy period today and, consequently, our passage on earth cannot be another blank page. The great questions of the future are beckoning us with their immense risks, their possibilities and their promises. We have but to choose those paths that open up the imagination and lead us to bold decision-making and the search for the right answers for this time, a time which is in no way one of mankind's happier periods of history.


===== Session 40 - 1985 =====
I should like, first of all, to convey to you. Sir, my sincere congratulations on your election as President of the fortieth session of the General Assembly. Your broad and relevant experience in the United Nations, your outstanding capabilities and acknowledged spirit of conciliation do honor to your country and to this significant anniversary.
I should also like once again to convey to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, our sincere congratulations for his accomplishments as the head of our Organization.
Forty years ago, in response to the strife and tragedy of the Second World War, the United Nations was created for the purpose of securing peace, development and coexistence, with mutual respect, among States. Today, when the possibility of confrontation seems not only to be getting the better of world leadership but also to be guiding some of its steps, it has become necessary to reaffirm that commitment. Decisive action is therefore required to give new life to this irreplaceable forum where we meet to combine our efforts. We are now celebrating the fortieth anniversary of the United Nations with mixed feelings that fluctuate between joy and uncertainty, deeply concerned because the principles and purposes that led to the establishment of the United Nations seem to fade before more immediate and subordinate interests, including a desire for domination which is as dangerous as it is outdated.
Venezuela comes to this session of the General Assembly with a strengthened determination to achieve peace, justice and understanding among the peoples of the world; with the same determination with which, together with 50 other countries, it signed the San Francisco Charter, in circumstances unprecedented in the history of the world. We wished to bear witness through our presence here to the unswerving faith of the Venezuelan people in the potential of the United Nations, established with the support of Latin America, 22 of whose countries are founding Members.
By drawing up a balance-sheet of what has occurred on the international scene since 1945, we are in large measure analyzing the role fulfillled by the United Nations, the leading arena for far-reaching decisions and a reflection of international life itself, marked as it is by countless risks and conflicts. To examine the present situation of the international community and its future outlook inevitably involves judging the prospects, the relevance and the influence of the United Nations as a factor of rapprochement among States. Wars, confrontations and reckless actions during these times of upheaval paradoxically strengthen its relevance and the need to preserve it as a mechanism directed to the rule of reason in international relations.
As the United Nations evolved it became evident that its action should encompass diverse areas if real peace was to be ensured and the deep causes of violence and the degradation of man were to be eradicated. The Organization had to assume new tasks, becoming a system dedicated not only to preventing conflict but
also to promoting economic and social development.
The very membership of the United Nations reflects one of the major changes of the present day: a significant number of countries is playing an ever greater role in the formulation of policies and initiatives.
In 1945 more than 750 million persons - almost a third of the world's population - lived under colonial rule. The historic process of decolonization that subsequently took place under the auspices of the United Nations made it possible for more than 70 countries in the three regions of the developing world to attain independence.
In mentioning the many effects of decolonization, we must stress the role played by the majority group in the United Nations that the countries of Latin America constituted, and their outstanding performance in the debates and decisions of the General Assembly during the years prior to the incorporation of the young States of Africa, Asia and the Caribbean. He Latin Americans can feel proud to have been in the front line of the struggle against colonialism, a course of conduct that was no more than our duty in view of our historical roots and our commitment to freedom and solidarity. Simon Bolivar, the liberator, had shown us the way.
This Organization has been and is faced with problems of extraordinary magnitude - problems that it has been unable to solve or mitigate, because of lack of goodwill, considerations of expediency, complicity, or simply lack of understanding of the great historical changes. These are situations that have posed a dilemma, that have acquired ever more alarming proportions and that have today become established priorities.
In a great paradox of our times, the Powers that played a decisive role in establishing the United Nations soon undermined by their actions what they had so solemnly proclaimed at the end of the Second World War.
Despite all the efforts deployed by this Organization, the nuclear-arms race between the super-Powers continues relentlessly to the consternation of all, carrying all of us with it as hostages to an uncertain and endangered future. The arguments with which we have tried to persuade those Powers to sponsor convincing disarmament and nuclear-arms-control measures have virtually been exhausted in what amounts to a deaf-ear policy on the part of the great Powers. Since 1945 the General Assembly alone has adopted more than 600 resolutions on subjects linked to disarmament in a markedly progressive trend.
We cannot console ourselves with a deceptive nuclear peace advocated by both sides but bearing within it an incalculable destructive potential, nor can we accept, in line with this strategic sophism, pretexts to carry the confrontation to other theaters and to further nuclear intimidation in clear violation of international treaties on the use of outer space. We therefore support and shall continue to support resolutely all initiatives aimed at demilitarizing space. Here there can be no room for doubt or hesitation.
The struggle against underdevelopment is as important as the struggle for peace. In recent years there has been a process of erosion that has undermined the very basis of the political consensus on which international co-operation for development is based.
This situation of uncertainty regarding the present relevance of the commitment to the problem of development generates a lack of confidence and leads to a greater degree of insecurity regarding the future of all.
We cannot claim that we lack the necessary resources. The intellectual and material heritage of humanity if used rationally would be sufficient to overcome poverty and stagnation. It is time therefore to invest it in the priorities demanded by that objective. We must reflect on whether we can continue to consent to a world characterized by intolerable domination, factions in conflict and repressed tension.
- These scenarios, which are no less real because they are sombre, strengthen our conviction that, as was originally established by the Charter, it is the duty of this Organization to be a center for harmonizing efforts and wills in order to rescue economic and social development as one of the collective priorities of our time and to allow us in practice to overcome technical difficulties, reconcile our interests and go forward together.
We must renew our commitment to development, without excuses or ambiguity, without paternalism or ulterior motives, reflecting our resolve for decisive action.
One of the most urgent problems of this decade stems from the lack of a system for financing development and the weakening of the institutions that were created for that purpose. I refer to the foreign debt of developing countries which threatens to paralyze economic growth, erode the process of democratization, upset social peace and destabilize the international financial system. It is a problem that involves the entire international community. The responsibility lies equally with the debtor countries, the creditor countries, private banking and international financial institutions. All of them therefore must be responsible for its solution; and to try to evade this responsibility may, in our opinion, be a mistake of unforeseeable dimensions.
To prevent the debt problem from ending in a crisis the debtor countries are making significant efforts requiring sacrifices on the part of their populations and advancing adjustment programs that have helped to improve their balance of payments. But such efforts cannot be sustained in the medium term. It is obvious that the debt problem cannot be solved at the expense of the well-being of the people and that a responsible Head of State can hardly endanger the future of his nation by carrying sacrifices to an extreme in order to settle its commitments. It is evident that each country's conduct is colored by different realities, but the debt problem in its dimensions and basic characteristics is of an inescapable collective nature.
Thus it is obvious that only the sustained economic growth of the debtor countries will enable them to comply with their foreign obligations.
Unfortunately, the serious, calm behavior of the debtor countries has not obtained a satisfactory response from the other countries and institutions involved. We have reached th point where the only method proposed for resolving this problem has been the absurdity of turning the developing countries into net capital exporters and the only method of action recommended at the international level has been the imposition of policies that stimulate recession and unemployment.
The industrialized countries must participate actively with the debtor countries in seeking more conclusive solutions to the debt problem and, in particular, in establishing protective mechanisms to cope with the high interest rates that are kept high so as to attract the capital necessary to finance deficits and high standards of living, while our countries, on the contrary, are being obliged to adopt severe adjustment measures at the cost of great sacrifice in order to eliminate existing deficits and honor our commitments.
From the standpoint of international solidarity there is no justification whatsoever for keeping real interest rates several points above the rate of inflation, as has been the practice in international financial markets. It is indispensable and urgent that we seek a solution of this problem in order to relieve the burden implied by debt servicing and to avoid worsening the economic situation- of the developing countries.
The lack of will to find shared solutions increases the possibility that we shall in the end face a crisis. Those who feel that the danger has been averted by the fact that the most difficult consequences of the problem have been postponed and have not yet affected international financial centers are mistaken. The danger remains. The advances made to date have only contributed to preventing a confrontation and to keeping open the possibility of dialog. If, however, this dialog does not take place, if it does not find substantive solutions, if it does not cover all the countries involved, these advances will have been illusory.
The Latin American countries, through the Cartagena Consensus, have proposed a dialog at the governmental level aimed at finding real and lasting solutions to the debt problem. Unfortunately, we met with no response. This leads us to the paradoxical situation in which the more the stability of the international financial system depends on us the more difficult it is made for us to find counterparts with whom to seek formulas that will enable us to maintain that stability.
We are determined that these formulas shall be of a multilateral nature, but we cannot remain passive if they are not achieved, because we cannot allow the fate of our peoples to remain at the mercy of an uncertain international economy; nor can we compromise the development of our nations beyond reasonable limits.
Venezuela, like other debtor countries, has stated and given proof of its firm desire to fulfill its foreign commitments. In our case we have established restructuring agreements with our creditors that lessen the impact of debt on our efforts to ensure our national development. We believe, on the basis of current estimates, that our commitments are viable. A contingency clause has been included in these agreements that allows for changes to be made in the event of special situations caused by fortuitous circumstances or force majeure, or in the case of substantial economic changes that modify the basis of the agreement. We believe that this should be a universal standard for refinancing agreements.
Moreover, experience of negotiations has taught us that an effort is necessary to create international economic conditions that will not endanger agreements already reached, that countries cannot be required to assume obligations that they are unable to fulfill, and that it is damaging to try to take advantage of or disregard the situation of countries experiencing very difficult circumstances. In this respect, we consider it necessary to establish, through dialog, a mutually acceptable general frame of reference that takes into account the development needs and need for well-being of peoples and the need to establish a stable development-financing system and the will to regularize international financial commitments.
However great Latin America's efforts, its problems cannot be overcome without a revitalization of its economies, and this requires the orderly and sustained growth of the world economy. But this essential balance cannot be achieved while the big industrialized countries maintain unnecessary protectionist barriers which with absurd, excessive selfishness they even seek to strengthen.
There is a close link between the fulfillment of their financial obligations by our countries and their prospects of economic and trade expansion. Our exports must grow so that we can pay our foreign debt, but first and foremost to generate the resources necessary to finance our development. We cannot devote the fruits of our adjustment efforts exclusively to debt-servicing, as we have been doing over the past four years. In 1984, for example, Latin America had a trade surplus of $37 billion, the largest in its history, but we had to transfer it to our creditors in interest payments. In fact, Latin America has become a net exporter of capital, which is a strange situation for a region of developing countries. Since 1982 this net transfer of resources has reached $70 billion, which in real terms is equal to nearly twice the resources used under the Marshall Plan for the reconstruction of the war-ravaged European economies.
The development of circumstances makes it necessary for the General Assembly to undertake at this fortieth session, in the economic sphere, an essential exercise in joint reflection in which we seriously analyze the present situation and attempt to reach a common diagnosis which will enable us immediately to undertake the necessary action.
In matters of trade, there has never before been such a demand for respect for principles and standards together with such a lack of compliance, such threats of trade war and such repeated and open use of the unilateral imposition of measures.
As regards matters of finance, it is scarcely necessary to recall that unless the multilateral bodies have the required resources and appropriate policies it will be at best a coincidence if we are able to overcome the widespread debt problem.
In monetary matters, there is no prospect of controlling the persistent instability of exchange rates or of reaching a level of international liquidity in keeping with the present situation and the foreseeable needs of the economies enduring harsh adjustment processes at a time when foreign credit is Contracting. We lack the operational mechanisms needed to deal efficiently with the international trade and financial situation, which is characterized by volatility and instability. It is even more significant that institutions designed to promote monetary and payments stability and an adequate flow of resources for development are undergoing disturbing changes in their purposes and objectives and being transformed from mechanisms for international co-operation into factors for control and security for the benefit of biased interests.
In our view, it is more necessary than ever before to co-ordinate economic policies multilaterally, both for sustained growth and for development, and the scope and priorities of that co-ordination cannot be disregarded by this Organization.
Certainly, it was not without interest that we received the information about the talks held recently by Finance Ministers and Governors of the central banks of the Federal Republic of Germany, the United States, France, the United Kingdom and Japan. Although nothing specific resulted from that meeting, and the reports that did emerge were cloaked in the traditional frustrating wordiness, the timid acknowledgment of the need to resist protectionist measures, the possibility of opening markets to our exports and a certain understanding of matters concerning reasonable interest rates and the granting of financing in suitable quantities and on suitable conditions could mean that we are witnessing a change in the perceptions of the great Powers. The developing world has been waiting for a long time for the necessary dialog to materialize.
Oil continues to be one of the basic elements of the world economy. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) is now 25 years old. Its noteworthy efforts throughout that time constitute one of the most just claims of the raw-material-producing countries to promote and achieve more just, rational trade between the developing and the industrialized countries.
Once again OPEC is issuing warnings that are not being heeded in world economic centers. Our warnings to the industrialized countries concerning the risks arising from an unstable, anarchic oil market and the negative repercussions of an erosion of prices on world financial and commercial markets have fallen on deaf ears. What we have said about the rapid depletion on the oil reserves of importing countries and of exporters not members of our organization has been ignored. The reaction has been short-sighted indifference.
OPEC will continue to defend its right to establish the terms of trade for this strategic source, which is essential for international economic development.
In Latin America we are facing the challenge of the social and economic development of our peoples, we are also, through the Contadora Group, tenaciously and with perseverance attempting to ward off the crisis in Central America. This action in the cause of peace and good will, which has been given the support and encouragement of the international community, has now been strengthened through the establishment of a support group composed of Argentina, Brazil, Peru and Uruguay, in a categoric demonstration of the fact that Latin America is prepared to resolve its own problems according to Latin America criteria and formulas, that we are deeply aware of the problem and that determined solidarity is being brought to bear to resolve it.
We unequivocally reject the interference in the region of opposing factors alien to the authentic aspirations of the peoples of Latin America, which in some way agitate and seek to undermine the possibilities of establishing peace and understanding in Central America. We believe that all the countries directly concerned in the region desire peace and that there are no sectors of the area bent on prolonging war-mongering speculation in connivance with foreign interests. We also believe that there is no more room to maintain the privileges and advantages that in large measure explain the present vicissitudes of the fraternal countries and the origins of the present crisis.
Despite many difficulties, steps are being taken to endorse the Contadora Act for Peace and Co-operation in Central America. The recent meeting of ministers of foreign affairs of Central America and Contadora was quite beneficial in this respect and, without being overly optimistic, we believe that the conditions for progress are now present. And I venture to say this fully aware that, as if by magic, every time the Contadora meetings take a step forward, incidents or actions of various types take place in the region which are perhaps intended to undermine the results of those efforts for peace and reconciliation.
It would be a regrettable paradox if, as we move closer to the signing of the Contadora Act for Peace and Co-operation in Central America, we were to witness a systematic worsening of this type of hypocritical conduct.
In any event, we Venezuelans shall not relent in this quest, since we are convinced that it is necessary to use dialog to oppose those who try to promote war and confrontation.
Venezuela is committed to peace in Latin America and in the entire world. We are committed to promoting democracy, freedom, well-being and the defense of human rights.
As we celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and 36 years after the signing of the Declaration of Human Rights, we see how the racist regime of South Africa persists in erecting a barrier to contain the will of a people that wishes, as is legitimately and humanly its due, to be master of its own destiny.
Nelson Mandela's long imprisonment testifies to the tenacity of a brave and struggling people. It is at the same time, however, a sad symbol of our Organization's inability to end a universal problem that concerns us all.
After so many years of repression backed by selfish interests and associations which have compromised and damaged the credibility and effectiveness of the United Nations, we must without delay act resolutely and decisively to apply effective sanctions. A decisive outcome is required to end once and for all racism and the vestiges of colonialism.
We have seen how some Governments are taking selective measures to induce the Pretoria Government to desist from its ignominious practices of racial segregation. But we insist that the firm will of important partners of South Africa is needed for sanctions to be really effective rather than simply an empty threat which only serves to spur on the racist Government to an intensified deployment of its powerful repressive apparatus. Nothing must stop us nor cause us to move backwards in the struggle against apartheid and racial discrimination.
The fate of Namibia is closely linked with the racist practices institutionalized by South Africa. We are filled with regret at the fact that we are celebrating this fortieth anniversary of the United Nations without the presence of a delegation representing a free Namibia. Numerous major obstacles have been placed in the way of that wish, shared by the overwhelming majority of nations represented here. We wish to convey to the people of Namibia our solidarity and our support in its struggle to exercise its inalienable right to self-determination and independence.
The struggle for human rights and freedom cannot be given up. In Latin America, we have in recent years succeeded in eliminating regimes and practices that were shameful for mankind. That task has not yet been completed. centers of arbitrariness, violence and injustice remain that gainsay the essence of the Latin American peoples and that often, like grotesque ghosts, strike blows reminiscent of a militaristic and arbitrary tradition. We cannot remain passive in the face of these situations.
Thus far, the joint action of the nations represented in this forum has had to be to a large extent a reaction against destructive trends, unacceptable practices, the temptation to dominate and structural deformities. This has been an arduous and commendable task. But the moment may have come to make it more positive and effective, to demonstrate that this dialog can be devoted to stimulating the potential of mankind and not only to fighting against the violence and exploitation that still exist in much of our world.
We call for the fulfillment of the objectives of the United Nations and ask for the participation of the military and economic Powers, which is fundamental, to encourage a new turn of events on the international scene, based on the practical application of the principles and purposes that we have set for ourselves. We want those initiatives that are in harmony with the collective outcry for a better world to be sponsored and supported within this Organization. We cannot allow this multilateral experience to be divided or weakened even when faced with intransigence and a lack of understanding. Nor can we allow irreversible conditions that make possible broader conflicts or the creation of distrust among the peoples represented here to prevail.
We fully agree with the call for reflection and action made by the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, in his report on the work of the United Nations, when he points out that
"The Organization's function, and hence that of the Secretary-General, is therefore to harmonize, to encourage and to initiate. But the implementation, the drive, must come from the Members, when this drive does come, it can achieve remarkable results." (A/40/1, p. 7)
At one time, during the 1950s, when a terrible earthquake almost destroyed the city of Ambato in Ecuador, the powerful and resonant voice of a Latin American democrat, Enrique Rodriguez Fabregat of Uruguay, cried out under this same roof, "Let us respond to this so-called act of nature with an act of man: let us help."
I was in Mexico some days ago to convey personally to President de la Madrid, on behalf of the people and Government of Venezuela, our solidarity with the Mexican people in this hour of sorrow and tribulation that has moved the entire international community and, at the same time, to convey our words of encouragement and our undiminished brotherly support. We therefore co-sponsored, with the greatest solicitude, the resolution unanimously adopted by the General Assembly regarding international help for Mexico.
Beyond our efforts for world peace, freedom, human rights and social and economic development, we are confronted by a new enemy, perhaps the most dangerous of alls drugs. They are the Trojan horse of our civilization.
In this theater of peace, I take the responsibility of calling for war, war against this scourge which is endangering the very health of our peoples and, above all, of our poorest, and therefore least protected, societies. And it is in this context that I am gratified to refer to the two resolutions on the subject approved by consensus during the last session, in the adoption of which Venezuela played an important role: one condemned the traffic in narcotics and the unlawful use of drugs and the other proposed the adoption of an international instrument to combat the problem in its new and devastating manifestations.
As a corollary to this process, the Secretary-General of the United Nations has called for a meeting to be held at the ministerial level for the purpose of dealing with all aspects of the drug problem. We attach the greatest importance to this proposal.
I must say very plainly that we must act simultaneously on the production, traffic and consumption of drugs. Only the co-ordinated actions of all countries can put an end to this tragic situation. Among the countries participating in this Assembly there are more than enough resources to do so. Clearly what is lacking, is the resolve to take the necessary heroic measures. I appeal to this Assembly: let us fight this war together.
I could not conclude this message from the people and Government of Venezuela without paying tribute to those men who have devoted an important part of their lives - and have even given up their lives - in the service of the United Nations: Trygve Lie, Dag Hammarskjold, U Thant, Kurt Waldheim and Javier Perez de Cuellar, who, in the post of Secretary-General, have helped to establish the role of the Organization as an essential and irreplaceable instrument of co-operation and
solidarity among the peoples of the world. I also wish to pay tribute to a Venezuelan who has played an important part in the struggles of the United Nations since its early days, Manuel Perez Guerrero, a Minister in my Government, who was present at the birth of the United Nations in San Francisco, but who has unfortunately not been able to be with me during this session.
I am particularly gratified to appear before this General Assembly, this democratic world, parliament, as a spokesman for the genuine feelings of the Venezuelan people, as President of the homeland of the Liberator Simon Bolivar, who foresaw an institution such as this one and who, by summoning the Amphictyonic Congress of Panama in 1826, helped to establish the foundations for the future development of the international Organization, designed to bring about a reconciliation of positions and co-operation with mutual respect among nations. By historical tradition and by deep-rooted conviction, we are firm believers in the enormous potential of the United Nations. And to believe in the United Nations is, above all, to trust in the intrinsic capacity of the human being to reconcile conflicting interests, harmonize different views and cultivate the fertile soil of understanding. He who has faith can move mountains. Let us make the effort; let us together set the world on the path towards a new, more just, more humane and more free civilization. The United Nations can do it.


===== Session 41 - 1986 =====
 I extend Venezuela's congratulations to Ambassador Choudhury on his election as President of this session of the General Assembly, and to reiterate our pleasure at the intelligent and expert manner in which Ambassador Jaime de Pinies guided the work of the Assembly during a year that was significant for the United Nations in so many ways.
Venezuela is once again addressing the General Assembly to confirm its commitment to the fundamental principles of the United Nations and to make its voice heard in defense of the ideals of peace and international coexistence, which warranted the Organization's coming into being in historical circumstances.
It is not idle to stress that mankind is living through a period characterized by difficulties and challenges of every kind. We are living in a period of confusion and undeniable risks. At times such as these, one can easily lose faith in human beings and in their potential to build and maintain an international order free from violence and the urge for hegemony in inter-State relations. As Saint-John Perse said: "After all, it is man who is at stake" (mais c'est de l'homme qu'il s'agit).
Despite every obstacle and the innumerable pitfalls facing the United Nations during its relatively brief history, the Organization still represents a crucial factor in the struggle for reason in the present international context. The criticisms that are sometimes leveled at it often lose sight of the deep meaning of the existence of an organization in which it is still possible to convene the overwhelming majority of States in order to urge them to face their problems by means of dialog and civilized debate.
While it is true that since the Second World War there has not been another general conflagration, it is likewise undeniable that the precarious "nuclear peace" is not a voluntary arrangement, and much less is it reassuring. Rather, it is the result of an endless rivalry for power rooted in fear, insecurity and the quest for domination by some States over others. In the present international context it would seem that we have no choice but to conceive of peace merely as a balance of power - which is at all times threatened. It is true, the balance of power does contribute to puace, but in no way does it guarantee it.
If we recall the origins of the two most ruinous military confrontations of this century, we see that although the most recent world war broke out because of the imbalance of power in Europe the first of those wars was unleashed despite the existence of what was at the time seen as a stable balance of power.
Those thoughts point in a clear direction: in our nuclear age, when mankind can see the risk of self-destruction with frightening clarity, we cannot rely exclusively on the balance of power to maintain peace; It is essential to go beyond this narrow approach and build more genuinely solid foundations for peace.
We are speaking of a peace based on the principles of a deeply humanistic ethic, on the values of tolerance, dialog and international co-operation. This is how we see the mission of the United Nations - as an effort that is for ever
renewed to give peace the support of ethical values, of agreements freely entered into, which will make it possible to coexist free from hegemony. We do not believe that to be an illusion.
Venezuela views with deep concern the alarming pace of the nuclear and conventional arms race, which seems to be a paranoid advance and, worse yet, one in constant acceleration.
We feel duty bound to confirm our commitment to the goals of disarmament and arms control, and our hope that negotiations under way in various forums on these matters will move forward steadily. We, the small and medium-sized nations, have the duty and the right to raise our voices as many times as may be necessary to give warning of the dangers that loom on the horizon and concern us all.
We object to any attempt to militarize outer space, which some seek to present as a panacea and the definitive course for the future elimination of the nuclear threat; but which, in fact, is nothing more than a new attempt to escape from the political and ethical dilemmas of our times with ever more advanced, complex, illusory and costly technological formulas.
In this respect, it is fitting to point out that the technological obsession, as revealed by the production of increasingly sophisticated and destructive arms systems, is little by little becoming an end in itself, while seriously weakening the political and ethical controls which should guide relations among States. We therefore insist that the arms race continues to subject us to grave and immeasurable threats to our species and planet. We shall never stop denouncing those threats as being absurd. Quite simply, we cannot be resigned to a precarious and uncontrollable situation.
Heightened East-West tensions, based on the overflow of nuclear arsenals, the growing use of military force, and great-Power intervention in various regional scenarios - these are other symptoms of deterioration which augur ill for world peace and stability.
Given this persistence of interests seeking to restore the rigidity of a bipolar world, those countries that wish to maintain a position of critical independence, diplomatic flexibility and political autonomy affirm the principles of genuine non-alignment before this Assembly.
During the past decade the countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America had many expectations of the global North-South process of negotiations, intended progressively to lessen the vast disparities between the economies of the industrialized countries and those of the less privileged peoples. The present situation has become extremely paradoxical: the economic and social crisis besetting the developing countries is perhaps more serious than ever before, and yet the political will of the most powerful to help tackle that crisis is in a state of constant decline.
Apparently there is no perception whatsoever of the risks of this spectacle of impoverishment and socio-economic backwardness. What is at issue here is a threat to world peace, arising from the clamor and anguish of vast sectors of mankind for whom the future seems to hold no promise and who are left with a sense of uncertainty.
We would violate an elementary rule of balance were we not to point out the positive changes that have occurred in the global context. As Latin Americans, we feel that one of the most encouraging changes in recent years has been the return to democracy, which has happened gradually over almost all of Latin America.
For years it was Venezuela's fate to live in a continent where authoritarian regimes were predominant. We can still see tragic realities of dictatorships on the map of Latin America. Repressions and mass violations of fundamental human rights have become the distinctive features of those Governments. Nevertheless, the surge towards democracy has an irrepressible impetus.
We are aware that it will not be easy to maintain democracy in our region, because the authoritarian regimes left behind a legacy of deep political wounds and grave socio-economic crises. Nevertheless, Venezuela trusts that this time the democratic process will prove to be lasting and irreversible. As the President of Venezuela recently said:
"The democratic Governments of Latin America must now strengthen their societies, their economies and their rules of the game in politics, in conditions that are hardly favorable. Venezuela is deeply committed to the process of building a hemisphere where freedom flourishes, and moving towards development with a social content. Our solidarity with the best Latin American causes is beyond question."
It is this feeling of solidarity which pron^ts us to bring before this Assembly the distressing and conflicting economic reality which overwhelms Latin America, severely obstructing any hope that our peoples may reach better standards of living.
The diagnosis of experts and specialized agencies gives us a precise idea of the situation. Most of our countries are undergoing the worst economic crisis since the 1930s. Per capita income in the region has declined by approximately 9 per cent since 1980 down to the 1977 levels, and in some countries to those of 1960. Unemployment and underemployment have risen to 50 per cent in some access. There is galloping inflation of almost 50 per cent in the region as a whole. The external debt is estimated at between $380 billion and $400 billion -an outrageous amount, which stifles our possibilities for development, particularly bearing in mind that close to 50 per cent of Latin America's export earnings is used for the payment of interest. In fact,/ recent years, our countries transferred about $106 billion to the industrialized countries - a burden which, in relative terms, is double the war reparations that Germany had to pay during the 1920s, as was pointed out recently by a United States expert.
The strange reverse net transfer of resources from South to North, that is to say, from developing to developed countries, is analyzed in detail in the 1986 United Nations World Economic Survey. It was emphasized at the last session of the Economic and Social Council in its resolution 1986/56, which refers consideration of this distressing and untenable phenomenon to this Assembly. As Willi Brandt says in his recent book. Weapons and Hunger, this is a "blood transfusion from the sick to the healthy".
Therefore it is obvious that we are facing a potentially explosive situation, one that will require an unusual effort of joint action. The Latin American democracies have borne their share of the responsibility for finding a way out of this crisis. Indeed, in our countries, even though faced with extremely severe conditions, we have been implementing policies for a rational and well-thought-out management of economic life.
We must repeat: the external debt burden and the rising tide of economic protectionism, which has now become almost the rule of conduct among the industrialized countries, are curtailing the capacity for progress of the nations of the developing world. This situation must and inevitably will change. It is our hope that these changes will take place on the basis of dialog and concerted action, guided by a positive realization of the common destiny of mankind.
It is in this spirit that the countries of the Group of 77 have brought before this forum the need to give priority consideration to the item "Interrelated areas of money, finance, debt, flow of resources, trade and development", including the preparation of an international conference on money and finance for development, with full participation.
We trust that the recently approved new round of trade negotiations will make it possible to restore the multilateral character which a system of international trade should have and which, as is well known, has been seriously eroded in recent years. The drafting of multilateral principles and norms to broaden the area of
trade to include new areas, such as services, should not condition or delay a solution to the immediate problem of ever-growing protectionism, which detracts from the credibiH :y of the system and constantly affects the prospects for growth and diversification of the developing countries, through their exports.
Venezuela regrets that the new round will not be open and unconditional for the developing countries, as was to be expected of an international effort to bring constructive solutions to current problems and to draw up a trade system that would respond to the collective interest.
The United Nations has repeatedly given development priority among its considerations. We believe the time has come to stress further the importance of this key problem, as it is a fundamental challenge of our times. We must, through this Organization, discover new ways to make it possible to resume the multilateral efforts which only a few years ago were on the verge of providing promising results. Venezuela will be prepared to co-operate without hesitation in advancing plans for joint North-South and South-South action, which we have supported in the past and shall continue to support.
Tensions in Central America have been and are the subject of the most careful scrutiny by the democratic States of Latin America. The persevering, patient and resolute action for peace by the Contadora Group and the Support Group prove that we are able to find a Latin American response to crucial problems in the region.
Venezuela is part of the initiative of the Contadora Group, being convinced that we must be prepared to explore every avenue to find peaceful outcomes to conflicts in the area and that every type of effort must be made to do away with the hostile atmosphere, which could lead to a general and fratricidal war in that long-suffering region.
What the Contadora Group and the Support Group are doing constitutes political action the merit of which has been to keep alive the possibility of dialog. We are firmly convinced of the value of this instrument for bringing about an atmosphere of mutual trust and ensuring that there is the political will on all sides to reach the final objective: to sign and inclement the Contadora Act for Peace and Co-operation in Central America. We shall not tire in our steadfast efforts.
We believe that there are sufficient reasons to persist along this path, provided that there is an end to the obstinate attitude of those interests which are determined to prolong the atmosphere of confrontation prevailing in the area, spurred on by the intervention of outside factors that obstruct the attainment of a negotiated settlement of the crisis.
Peace in Central America will not become a reality unless the States of the region themselves, not acting under external pressures, reach agreements that make coexistence possible, with a pluralistic democracy, on the basis of respect for the self-determination of peoples.
Venezuela is unreservedly committed to the protection of fundamental human rights, and it has been a primary objective of the Government of Venezuela to give due guarantees for freedom and for human dignity in every sphere. This is not a circumstantial posture to be maintained for a limited time or in a given area. On the contrary, it is an irrevocable conviction and a constitutional mandate of our democratic system, which in turn encourages and improves the equality and justice of Venezuelan democracy.
In accordance with its principles, Venezuela participates with great interest in the United Nations organs dealing with human rights, so as to give impetus to and support all actions aimed at bringing about positive changes in countries which present scenarios of persistent violations of such rights. At the same time, we have given a vote of confidence to countries which have finally succeeded in crossing the threshold to freedom and have taken a democratic course; for, as we see it, the defense and consolidation of this way of life is the ideal and practical formula for ensuring full respect for human rights.
During 1986 several international meetings were held on what remains a formidable challenge for the United Nations. I am referring to the persistence of the policy of apartheid and to one of its external manifestations: the illegal occupation of Namibia. I had the opportunity to participate in the International Conference for the Immediate Independence of Namibia, which was held in Vienna in June of this year. The final Declaration of that Conference reaffirms, once again, that the only basis for the peaceful settlement of the problem is the United Nations plan for the independence of Namibia contained in Security Council resolution 435 (1978). At the time Venezuela, as a member of the Security Council, gave its full support to the adoption of that resolution. Venezuela has requested and resolutely supported the application of mandatory sanctions as provided for in Chapter VII of the Charter, so that the constant threat of South African policies to world peace will not continue and become more acute.
We are witnessing a situation of deep-rooted upheaval which jeopardizes international peace and security and which is becoming increasingly alarming. The escalation of terrorist acts indiscriminately endangers fundamental human values, such as the right to life, to peace, to freedom and to confidence. There is no reason or goal that can justify the use of terror in desperate attempts to achieve certain objectives. We are convinced that international solidarity can lead to joint efforts aimed at promoting an atmosphere of confidence that will make it possible to eliminate such criminal manifestations.
Every day the problem of drug abuse and illicit traffic in drugs demands more and more careful attention by Governments. It requires firm policies and effective acts of international co-operation, that are appropriate to the challenge we face.
Mankind is threatened and we must have an international instrument to enable us to punish the crime and focus on the social and economic roots of the problem. At the thirty-ninth session of the General Assembly President Lissinchi warned of the dangers for the internal and external security of countries created by the illicit traffic in drugs which has even altered relations among them. To quote the President of Venezuela, these dangers include attempts to "destabilize Governments through corruption, making use of all kinds of criminal elements, tying them into an intricate network of operations, conspiracies and complicities which involve all levels of society, from subversives of the left and right to the most affluent and most impoverished of our citizenry, striking at the very heart of public life. ... its penetration ... has reached such a magnitude that ... drug trafficking not only represents a threat to the national security and sovereignty of several countries but is also turning into a dangerous agent of international conflicts." 
In this connection, I should like to express the appreciation of my Government to the Secretary-General and his supporting staff for the preparation of the draft international convention against illicit traffic in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. This will enable us to have in a very short time a comprehensive text with the observations of many Member States, in particular those where the problem of the illicit traffic in and use of drugs is of major importance. As will be recalled, in 1984 Guatemala advocated the idea of a new convention to cover aspects which had not been anticipated in the international instruments now in force.
The International Conference on Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking is to be held in 1987. It has been convened by the Secretary-General for the purpoe of generating universal action to combat the drug problem in all its forms and at all levels and to approve a plan for future action on the problem. Both initiatives have the support of the Government of Venezuela.
Venezuela is committed to the strengthening of the United Nations and will decisively challenge any attempts to make it inoperative or set it aside as one more symbol of lost illusions. He reaffirm this commitment especially at this time of crisis and downgrading of the programs of multilateral action established to find solutions to the grave problems that afflict so many countries.
In our view, rationalization criteria are necessary to enable the United Nations to make the best use of both its financial and its human resources, and of the effective support of Member States in this joint effort.
In signing the San Francisco Charter we entered into commitments which ve have invariably complied with, even in the worst times; these have never been an excuse to fail to comply with our budgetary responsibilities as far as the United Nations is concerned.
Since January of this year Venezuela has been a non-permanent member of the Security Council for the third time. We have played our part in dealing with the delicate matters considered by it, guided by principles of balance, moderation and harmonious coexistence, in the search for possible solutions and a lessening of tensions throughout the world.
On reviewing the Secretary-General's report to this session we find statements made with authority and common sense. Its more general outlines on the possibilities of solving world conflicts give us much food for thought. We find particularly striking a paragraph which sums up the whole significance of the role that multilateralism should play in our times, and I shall quote it: It reads: "The strengthening and revitalization of the present structure of multilateral institutions is critical to the resolution of problems confronting, the international community relating to peace, security and development. To ignore this necessity is to imperil the future prospects of a better world." 
We support the Secretary-General's guidelines with the same conviction. Their implementation would strengthen the ability of the United Nations to give clear leadership in the economic field. We must remember the self-evident truth that the solution of many economic problems would bring with it a lessening of tensions.
On the fifth anniversary of the mandate given to Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar as Secretary-General of the United Nations we wish to convey our appreciation to him for his outstanding work, in which he has clearly shown his ability to handle with dignity and dedication the setbacks which our supreme multilateral forum has been facing.
In th is International Year of Peace, we reaffirm our confidence in a more prom is ing future for all the peoples of the world. We shall not falter in our efforts, as a country which yearns for peace and development and is struggling to achieve them, in the firm conviction that peace and development are indivisible.






===== Session 42 - 1987 =====
﻿Mr. President, on behalf of the people and Government of Venezuela, I am pleased to convey to you my sincere congratulations on your election as President of the forty-second session of the General Assembly. Your well-known personal Qualities and your wide experience as a diplomat are guarantees that in this new stage of General Assembly activities we shall achieve fruitful results.
May I also express Venezuela's appreciation of the outstanding work accomplished by Mr. Choudhury of Bangladesh, the outgoing President of the Assembly. His valuable contribution was felt in many fields and his actions bear witness to his support of the principles which guide the United Nations.
It is with particular pleasure that I also greet most respectfully the Secretary-General, Javier Perez de Cuellar, an eminent Latin American. His persistent efforts on behalf of international peace and harmony and the intellect and tenacity of which he has given proof in the discharge of his lofty functions have won him broad and open recognition.
Once again I come to this forum of universal dialogue to reaffirm the commitment of Venezuela to the fundamental causes of peace and understanding among peoples, which are the raison d'etre of this Organization. I come to this Assembly in the conviction that in times of great economic crisis, extreme political dilemmas and threats to peace the United Nations is strengthened as the undeniable contemporary chosen place for negotiating solutions to the major problems which affect the international community. Our message is therefore one of unequivocal support for its endeavours and labours.
This assures me that I am interpreting the unanimous conviction of Venezuelans in reaffirming unambiguously that Venezuela has faith In the United Nations, in the motives that brought it into being and in the effectiveness of its ideals. We are firmly on the side of those who strive to strengthen It. The satisfaction of many basic expectations depends on Its vigour. We cannot allow the prospects for collective well-being to suffer for the sake of subordinate Interests. The time has come for concrete Initiatives and results, with a clear sense of the responsibilities at stake. The United Nations can do It. We are certain of that.
I should like to put before this General Assembly some views which seem to me to be basic to the present International situation, together with a broad outline of the foreign policy of my Government, which is the Government of the Venezuelan people. 
At the outset I must refer to the challenge of peace at the global and the regional level. The dangers which beset the human race in this nuclear era are well known. We are also familiar with the serious obstacles that lie in the path of a just and lasting peace. Confronted with these barriers, it is natural that pessimism often prevails in prognostications on the subject of peace and its future.
We cannot, of course, deceive ourselves. While it is true that since what is called the Second World War no new general conflagration has broken out, it is also true that the current "nuclear peace" is less a voluntary arrangement - which, of course, is not reassuring either - than the result of implacable rivalry for power and dominance, spurred by fear, mistrust and the quest for hegemony.
These facts cannot be concealed, but it would also be wrong not to point out some positive signs which show that our wills are not yet governed by irrationality. We realize that arms control and disarmament are not in themselves guarantees of peace, but there is no doubt that they make it clear that there is a desire for peace. In this respect, we welcome the important steps which the two great nuclear Powers have been taking to eliminate medium- and short-range missiles in Europe.
Venezuela wishes its voice to be heard in categorical support for this and other initiatives designed to lessen in some measure the crushing burden of the nuclear-arms race, I think it is necessary, and also fair, to recognize the positive intentions which serve to motivate the leaders of the great Powers in the negotiations under way. Let us hope that this spirit of compromise will be the prelude to speedier and more far-reaching advances on the road to arms control and nuclear disarmament. In these times, when the danger of self-destruction is looming with threatening clarity, we cannot rely on the balance of nuclear terror as an element for peace. We must go beyond that and support peace on the basis of the values of international tolerance and understanding.
A few days ago the International Conference on the Relationship between Disarmament and Development took place. It confirmed once again the obvious fact that in the midst of the economic-financial crisis which the developing countries face it has now become Imperative that measures be taken which will make possible a re-channelling of substantial financial resources, which would undoubtedly facilitate the solution of some of the grave problems confronting our countries.
Any progress in the field of disarmament will be a welcome step towards a goal which we defend and will continue to defend resolutely. We therefore once again urge the super-Powers to accelerate and broaden negotiations in the field of nuclear disarmament. Similarly, as we reiterated at the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva, another objective which we shall not renounce is the conclusion of a convention on the prohibition of chemical weapons. We are pleased to see the progress that is being made on this subject in the ongoing negotiations.
In accordance with the principles of this Organization, we have exercised our responsibility as a member of the Security Council during three terms in the course of our 30 years of democratic life. Our current mandate as a non-permanent member of the Council, the primary organ of the United Nations, where we have at all times endeavoured to play a conciliatory and constructive role in the promotion of world peace, ends in December.
My country will continue to pursue its recognized peaceful calling and course in all relevant parts of the world. We firmly and loyally support the settlement of disputes between States by peaceful means, including direct negotiations, without pressure or unacceptable deadlines. We advocate the use of reasonable. It Is In this spirit that we have taken part as a member of the Contadora Group in the resolute quest for peace in the Central American region. After four years of arduous work aimed at achieving a peaceful, negotiated solution to the Central American crisis, we are beginning to see some results which allow us to be reasonably optimistic.
The agreements reached in Guatemala by the Presidents of the five Central American Republics were a substantial advance and justify our referring to the obstacles that have been overcome. This is an effort made by the Central American countries themselves, which should make the agreed procedure genuine and trustworthy.
I wish to emphasize that the International Verification and Follow-up Commission provided for in the Guatemala agreement was established in Caracas a few weeks ago. The members of the Commission are the Foreign Ministers of the Contadora Group, of the Support Group and of Central America, and the Secretaries-General of the Organization of American States and of the United Nations.
We are, of course, aware that in this whole process we need the co-operation of countries with links with and interests in the region. All our efforts could be impaired and peace in Central America made impossible without a positive contribution from these elements. We also recognize that this conflict, like many others we have witnessed and are witnessing, is to a large extent the result of underlying socio-economic injustices, which have to be addressed. These are fundamental aspects and the Contadora and Support Groups take them into account in their true dimensions. Thus it was decided at the Caracas meeting to take the necessary steps immediately to prepare a structure and an instrument for an emergency programme of international technical and economic co-operation for the benefit of the countries of the region. It was also agreed that work would be begun as soon as possible by the international community on measures to implement the programme. This is an important requirement.
The continuing negotiations and the political will constantly evinced in the joint action of the countries of the Contadora Group, enhanced by the addition of the countries of the Support Group, have led to the accumulation of a wealth of useful experience, prompting the eight countries to establish a permanent mechanism for consultations and concerted political actions. This was set up in Rio de Janeiro in December 1986.
This action is in line with our purpose of strengthening, organizing systematically and harmonizing political action by participating Governments, by means of regular consultations on matters which affect or interest our countries, in the context of increasing Latin American unity. We are also prompted by the determination to secure and strengthen democratic and pluralist processes on our continent. We have not entered into competition with organizations and forums in our regional area, nor do we intend to do so.
As a step forward in this process, the eight Presidents of the consultation mechanism have decided to meet in Mexico at the end of next November to decide on specific objectives which will contribute to a broader understanding among the Governments and peoples of the Latin American region.
The trend towards democracy in Latin America has fortunately received a great impetus in recent years. Nevertheless, we must reaffirm our conviction that there is a close connection between international security, democratic stability and the socio-economic development of our countries. The survival of democracy has much to do with the capacity of a system based on freedom to satisfy the legitimate aspirations of its people to well-being. We know full well that the primary obligation in meeting the challenges of development rests on our own shoulders. But this in no way diminishes the responsibility which the industrialized world shares and the contribution which it should make in the struggle against protectionism and in the sensible management of the debt problem in such a way as not to curtail our prospects of socio-economic progress and political stability.
If we are sincere - and history will not forgive us if we are not - we must recognize that the protectionist race in which some developed countries are engaged and the problem of the external debt and the rise in interest rates, which have recently been dangerously accentuated, are two scourges that also have sinister implications for world peace.
No viable solution has yet been found to the external debt problem, the solution of which has so far been approached without regard to any historical perspective. Instead it has been dealt with simply as a financial question, and the arrangements necessary to settle once and for all a crisis which affects both international banking and the development of peoples have simply been postponed. Even more alarming is the fact that increasing limitations are being placed on the debtor countries' capacity to meet the basic needs of their peoples. This one-sided and selfish approach undoubtedly creates deep divisions in international economic relations and jeopardizes social peace in the world. 
We have been asked to be patient and make sacrifices, and we have demonstrated patience and made sacrifices so as to avert an international financial collapse and win time in seeking a concerted and shared solution to the Indebtedness problem. But our attitude has been ignored and misinterpreted. A political dialogue has become more difficult  the conditions set by the international financial community have become more severe, and our ability to honour our international commitments by sharing in international trade has been restricted, it is therefore imperative - this bears repetition - to hold a broad and sincere dialogue between creditors and debtors, on the basis of co-responsibility and the right to develop.
I am saying this with the authority which Venezuela has by having honoured its obligations and negotiated the restructuring of its debt in a framework of moderation and understanding, and as a warning in the face of a crisis which, because it was postponed without any effort to deal with the root of the problem, might assume an even more acute form.
The protectionism of the industrialized countries - due in large measure to a lack of discipline in the management of their domestic economies - represents a new, fundamental and unfair - indeed abusive - restriction on opportunities for the developing countries to maintain normal relations with the .international economic community. Through all kinds of mechanisms, crude and subtle, our products' access to international markets is being hampered, which in turn prevents us from adopting development strategies based on a large share in the world economy. While the rules of international trade are being side-stepped, new ones are being devised which ignore the needs of the developing countries, with no regard for the consequences to the stability and evolution of international relations.
As a result of this lack of perspective, the poor countries are now in the absurd situation of sending net transfers of resources to the rich countries, which, in practical terms, means, greater poverty, deeper inequalities and fewer possibilities of maintaining a dialogue and institutional stability.
From every point of view, it is necessary to support negotiating endeavours so as to find better solutions for the problems mentioned. But it is also necessary to avert the risk that the developing countries remain on the sidelines of the far-reaching changes that are now taking place - among other reasons because of innovations in technology, production and international trade.
Unless international co-operation fills this gap we all run the risk of projecting into the future an international economy compartmentalized into unrelated blocs or, what would be even worse, integrated on the basis of dependent relationships, the characteristics and effects of which would doubtless be contrary to the purpose and to the essence of this Organization. We must therefore remember that we have pending on the agenda the mandate for the start of global negotiations on international economic co-operation for development, which should be revised and ratified in the light of present circumstances, including the results of the Seventh United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD VII), which met in Geneva last July.
That Conference was able to hold a constructive dialogue among all regional groups on the subject of the reactivation of development, growth and international trade through multilateral co-operation. This is very important) it is one of the surest steps taken steps taken so far to solve the problems raised.
In its conclusions, we note that it went beyond a diagnosis of the international economic situation and, in the measures and policies recommended by consensus, the Conference made it possible for UNCTAD, as the principal institution in the United Nations system in matters of economic development, to resume, at least in part, its proper role in multilateral economic politics. We therefore trust that UNCTAD VII will mark the end of the process of debilitation and of the disagreements to which UNCTAD has been subjected. If UNCTAD has proved anything, it has been its relevance as a forum for the formulation and negotiation of policies and measures regarding the problems of international economic relations and economic development. Today we have a better perception of the problems, their scope and implications, of the positions and prospects for which they are managed, as well as of the directions that need to be taken for their solution.
In connection with the growing interdependence of all our countries, my Government wishes to make a very special mention of the report entitled "Our Common Future", prepared by the World Commission on the Environment and Development, an organization presided over by the Prime Minister of Norway, Mrs. Gro Harlem Bruntland, and whose final report has been submitted to this Assembly for consideration.
The diagnosis, conclusions and guidelines of that valuable work have been closely scrutinized in ray country. Venezuela's traditional position, both at the national level and in the international forums dealing with the study of environmental problems, has been to defend development in harmony with a balanced ecology, of which man is an integral part and without which his very existence could be threatened. We welcome the publication of this brilliant and useful work and urge that it be debated with a creative intent for the best interests of man and his future.
I should also like to refer to the phenomenon of international trade in toxic and dangerous wastes. It is scandalous that this should exist and that the disparities in technology, progress, in the legal infrastructure and control are so abused as to make many developing countries the dumping ground of the scum of industrial activity. This situation requires thorough study and regulation at the multilateral level. Venezuela will support every effort aimed at guaranteeing that by the beginning of 1989 the international community will be in a position to approve a world-wide convention on the control of cross-border movements of dangerous wastes. .
In the meantime, the Government of Venezuela has decided to adopt regulatory provisions to prevent its territory from becoming the recipient of toxic wastes.
I must also reaffirm, with utmost force and urgency, that at times when we are busy solving pressing problems, we neglect what is perhaps one of the greatest dangers for mankind: the gradual breakdown of the environmental eco-system which is nevertheless our main source of sustenance and life. We therefore maintain that at all levels of activity of the United Nations system, as well as of all other sub-regional, regional and international organs, a greater awareness should be fostered of the close link between economic development and environmental problems, as well as of their long-term effects. It is urgent to ensure the quality of life for generations to come. Accordingly, we support with keen interest the holding, this session, of a plenary meeting devoted exclusively to items pertaining to the environment and development.
Venezuela is attentively following the process of reviewing the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of the United Nations, as called for in resolution 41/213, as well as an in-depth study of the intergovernmental structure of the United Nations and of its functions in the economic and social field, now underway in an ad hoc committee of the Economic and Social Council. This process, which is intended to improve the United Nations system, should not, however, affect the essential functions, mandates and programmes of the Organization. 
As we see it, there is nothing whatever that can justify depriving the Organization of the budgetary resources which are mandatory under the Charter, nor for compelling it to dismantle its infrastructure and programmes because of delays and failures to comply with financial obligations. Such an attitude is inadmissible, the more so if it proceeds from contributors with a high level of responsibility towards the Organization.
The Government of Venezuela, even in the face of a difficult situation as regards its exports earnings and of countless economic and social needs, has made it a point of honour to comply fully with its obligations towards this Organization, Almost all Member countries have had the same attitude. We can only trust that the so-called United Nations financial crisis, the origin of which is well known, will be overcome by full compliance with the obligations we all undertook on becoming Members of this Organization.
One of the basic items that has figured prominently in our debates is the battle we are waging to eradicate the grave scourge of the production, consumption, abuse and illicit traffic of drugs.
At the International Conference held in Vienna in June last, important steps were taken to draft measures for International co-operation' in this field, where the need for concerted action by all countries Is becoming Increasingly evident. The phenomenon of cross-border drug trafficking cannot be defeated by one country alone. It must be addressed on all fronts: domestic, bilateral and multilateral. The Vienna Conference succeeded in producing two important documents in this direction, that is, the Declaration and the broad and multidisciplinary Plan of Action, which are before us as instruments of undeniable value to guide and harmonize actions by States and by international organizations in the crusade against drugs. 
On the other hand, as a measure to supplement the efforts of the international community in this direction, Venezuela, a resolute pioneer in this struggle, will steadfastly pursue its action within the United Nations, so that we may as soon as possible conclude the convention against the Illicit traffic in drugs and psychotropic substances, the initial draft of which the Venezuelan delegation submitted to this Assembly in 1984. The work done so far leads us to be optimistic, but it is obvious that in this field - the battle against what I have not hesitated to call the "Trojan Horse" of our civilization - much remains to be done, particularly in those countries that provide the biggest markets for this fiendish consumption. Not to face this aspect of the problem decisively would be suicidal. The war against drugs must be global, at every stage, lest we be defeated.
Once again we must refer to the grave conflicts prevailing in southern Africa. It is intolerable that, after long decades of debates and decisions taken both by the Security Council and by this Assembly, the colonialism and racism imposed by the ruling minority in South Africa should persist at all costs.
Once again we urge South Africa to comply fully with Security Council resolutions 385 (1976) and 435 (1978) , thus leading to the prompt independence of Namibia, as decided by the international community.
Venezuela attaches particular importance to its relations with African countries. With them we wish to pursue our efforts in the common struggle for the final eradication of apartheid and the defeat of colonialism reigning in Namibia, One of the issues the Organization has been dealing with for decades is the Middle East conflict, a constant concern of the entire international community. We express the hope that it may be possible to arrive at a meeting of minds which will enable progress to be made towards a negotiated, just and lasting solution in that important region of the world. In this respect we support the Secretary-General's efforts aimed at convening a peace conference on the Middle East with the participation of all parties concerned.
In the same context, we are gravely concerned about the persistent tension and armed confrontations between Iran and Iraq - countries with which Venezuela maintains cordial and important relations. We hope that this long war, which has engendered such widespread destruction, will soon be ended thus averting the implicit danger of a widening of the conflict.
The existence of this Organization, the continuing validity of its noble principles and ideals and its broad and diverse action in many different aspects of international life - all bear eloquent witness to Its role and what it can accomplish.
There is no doubt that after this already lengthy road of 42 years of United Nations existence many expectations remain unrealised, but action on many others is on course and moving confidently into the future. In these times of supreme challenge our Organization urges us to strengthen it and give it our most resolute support.
We earnestly hope that the deliberations of this session of the General Assembly will be reflected in effective and fruitful results that will promote harmony and progress for all peoples, within a balanced world order where genuine and total peace prevails, free from any restrictions. That is what the yearning for justice of universal man still demands.


===== Session 43 - 1988 =====
﻿It is a happy and memorable coincidence that at this forty-third session two Latin American citizens hold posts of honour: one is President of the General Assembly and the other is Secretary-General. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Argentina, Mr. Dante Caputo, and the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar, are distinguished representatives of our people, heirs to the best ideological and republican traditions which created the Latin American nationality.
When we joined the international community, after the historic changes generated by the French Revolution - now nearing its bicentennial - there was in our continent a feeling of identity, unity, mutual interest in solidarity, and brotherhood in the face of the sufferings of the war of emancipation and of outside threats.
Today, after many difficult years of being divided by foreign interests, of inflamed prejudices among ourselves, of painful interruptions to our expression of the democratic will as peoples, Latin America, almost in its entirety, is able to present itself to the world once again, as it is doing at this Assembly, with a feeling of solidarity and a community of ideals. I have no fear that I may be mistaken, or arrogating the right of another, when I affirm that we, the nations of America, are undergoing a period of far-reaching changes which we cannot, nor shall, this time leave to the vagaries of circumstance.
"Security" is usually defined in terms of custody, preservation and promotion of a country's basic interests. For Venezuela, together with what is inherent in our national being, its security also means democracy, by virtue of the provisions and mandate established by its Constitution. It means the freedom of its citizens to dissent, under the rule of law, to be able to prosper and satisfy their material and spiritual needs with autonomy and independence. Nevertheless, in a contemporary world such as ours, our security and the security of our countries are threatened from outside. So it is high time to make this charge, and there is no more appropriate forum in which to do so than this, at this rostrum open to all the peoples of the world.
Today, the legitimacy of our fundamental tights as nations and peoples, as communities and individuals, is being challenged. There is no other way to explain the lack of definitive solutions to problems such as the problem of external debt, which drains our countries' economies and deprives them of the tight to a stable future.
The external debt problem acts as a stranglehold today on the economic and social development of the vast majority of the peoples of the world. It is essential to overcome it if we ace to achieve more just and humane social development. We must begin to tackle it recognizing that we shall find a lasting solution only when we face up to its true causes and admit the failure of the strategies so far followed in our attempt to manage it. 
Among the basic causes of the external debt crisis are the serious errors made by banks and lenders when they set aside the very principles on which private credit activities operate and try ineffectually to supplant the development financing institutions and take over the functions assigned to them.
Secondly, immediately following this, there occurred another very important change: the Governments and monetary authorities of some of the countries in which the creditor banks operated, to defend their currencies and fight inflation, took the political decision to raise interest rates to levels far above the average inflation rates, without taking into account the devastating effect that this step would have on the debtor countries.
The result has been that some loans that were contracted at interest rates at a level in balance with inflation rates have to be serviced at an almost impossible level of interest, because there is no economic activity that can generate enough wealth to cover that imbalance, which is the result of a political decision taken by the Governments of developed countries.
The logic of international financial capitalism is unethical and immoral. An economic system cannot function indefinitely on the basis of such a mechanism. Nor can it be claimed that it is reasonable for the expectations of our peoples to be subordinated to the covetousness of the most crass mercantilism. And it is far less reasonable that nations which profess to be our allies and friends should seek not only to justify but to impose such logic, using the most blatant euphemisms.
We have seen, in the schemes so far presented, one refinancing negotiation following another, with adjustment policies in the debtor countries and protective policies for the financial systems in the creditor countries; interventions by the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the regional development banks; one international conference following another, with specific plans from developed countries - all with no practical result. The fact is that for both the countries that have paid and those that have not, the situation is untenable.
Debt can never be repaid by means of more debts. The traditional scheme is bankrupt and the old timetable appears to us now to be a harmful and grotesque ritual.
Where do we expect this road to lead us? Let us remember that there are limits which cannot be crossed with impunity, and the limits include that concept of security and that right to development and social justice which we shall never tire of claiming to be inalienable. The dramatic, compelling fact of the matter is that social problems are becoming more acute and that there are no more adjustments to be made; the net flow of capital from debtor to creditor countries continues; countries service their commitments and, with very few exceptions - and so far Venezuela has been one of them - debts rise, interest is paid on interest, and the dilemma of the debt is further compounded.
The policy of gaining time, hoping for a financial miracle that will make it possible for the debt to be serviced under current terms, has had its day. We have to grasp this fact and act accordingly, and very quickly. Let us recall the crisis of the 1930s when more than half the countries which were then in the League of Nations filed for moratoriums on their debt; and let us also remember all the consequences, with the world-wide effects that sprang from not having acted in time. It is therefore our duty to try agreed solutions that will lead to international agreements under which the debtors will obtain conditions that are reasonable in relation to the size of their debts; and real schedules and interest rates will be established that will enable them to pay and at the same time develop their economies.
There is no other solution. Let us not delude ourselves. If we are not able to devise a multilateral mechanism to meet these objectives, we shall become passive witnesses to an economic and social disaster that will embrace all countries, whether developed or not.
It is not possible to remain wealthy for long if that wealth is based on the ruin of others; far less so in today's interdependent world.
The economist and university professor Carlos Diaz Alejandro once said:
"To blame the victims is a tempting way to shirk responsibilities, especially when the victims themselves are far from virtuous." We have repeatedly maintained that debt is a joint responsibility and that, accordingly, seeking solutions to overcome its traumatic effects must necessarily also be a joint decision, one that is rational and equitable, agreed to by creditors and debtors.
We, the developing countries, are the victims: of that there can be no doubt. It is likewise true that we are not virtuous. We are not virtuous victims. Yet, in this case, the sins are not the sins only of just some but the sins of one and all. We cannot therefore accept that our people should bear the punishment. They most certainly are not to blame.
Nor is this a unilateral plea for our peoples. We are certain that the perils of the future will not spare those who now have the power to take the major decisions. This is the message that Î wish to place on record here before this forum on behalf of the people of Venezuela, a message which is, or should be, the sum and conscience of mankind.
A few days ago, meeting at the Regional Conference on Poverty, Latin American representatives observed that 61 million Latin Americans lived in a state of poverty which did not even allow them to satisfy their basic need for food. Faced with this reality, which could easily be observed even more dramatically in other developing regions, it is fitting to ask oneself: What right can be invoked, what obligations can be adduced, that transcend fundamental human rights? It can, of course, be argued that it is up to each Government to deal with the problems of the society it represents and that its responsibilities cannot be transferred to others. True, yes, but only when those responsibilities are theirs alone.
No one can claim that it is so. The existing interrelationship between the development of our economies and the international economy is a fact of life which, instead of leading us on to progress, seems to lead us to backwardness. Is this, or is it not, a collective responsibility?	 
A very recent diagnosis of the Latin American economic situation produced by the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Latin America (ECLA) , indicates that since the region has had to make thorough adjustments which give priority to the balances in external accounts, the end result is that we may be in a position to overcome the stagnation in growth and recover greater price stability; but in order to so, it is vital to put an end to, and reverse, the transfer of resources to which our economies have been subjected. In our view, this situation can be achieved only if the debt problem is approached and managed in a radically different way.
Venezuela - and I am saying this on its behalf with full moral and political authority - considers that the efforts made have been more than enough.
We cannot envisage staying where we are as the scenario for our society in the future. We have reached the point at which development and foreign debt have become the antithesis of each other in a contradiction which we cannot evade indefinitely.
Venezuela has made praiseworthy efforts to restore to its economy a stable and predictable frame of reference. The internal reorganization and adjustment which it has carried our have been beneficial in so far as they have been able to stimulate the strength and reserves of our society. To be able to bring this to fruition now, we must avoid the risk of inflation, reactivate investment processes, improve productivity, and raise the standard of living of our people, all of which depend on the level of resources we can invest in our own progress and on whether or not we are able to guarantee stability and predictability, which every economic activity and social advance require. 
Like the majority in our region, we stand a chance of coming out of this crisis successfully. It is accordingly imperative that we should not allow ourselves to slump in inertia and that we should take advantage of this transition. In order to do this, we need full understanding on the part of the international community and of the developed countries in particular, of what is at stake. It is impossible to imagine that their exercises in co-ordinating their economic policies are in themselves efforts which we could consider to be consonant with the circumstances facing the rest of the world; nor to imagine that our problems will be solved in this way.
We welcome the apparently greater clear-sightedness of the discussion at the Toronto meeting regarding the realities facing the developing world, but since there has been no constructive dialogue or short-term operational measures, we believe that we are entitled to reserve for ourselves the right to explore the possibilities that may prove to be needed.
In Latin America a group of countries have been thinking along these lines. The Acapulco Commitment to Peace, Development and Democracy, which we eight Latin American Presidents signed last year, is the expression of our shared concerns and our common purposes. We have set ourselves the necessary goals in the three fields covered by our commitment, and we intend to further and enlarge them. We shall soon be meeting again in fraternal Uruguay to refine our perceptions and take note of the degree of acceptance and understanding which our assessments have received.
Venezuela is prepared to make its contribution to ensure that Latin America will not be relegated from the world which, it seems, is being forged at the current time.
The relaxation of tensions and the beginnings of solutions to grave international conflicts in various parts of the world are not fortuitous, just as the tensions and confrontations which provoked them were not.
The great Powers have entered into a process of dialogue and disarmament. We congratulate them and trust that this will be sustained. Countries in confrontation, zones in conflict, ate beginning to feel the results of those agreements, and at last recourse is being made to the multilateral institutions which were created to promote peace. In this context, allow me to congratulate the Secretary-General for his efforts and convey our sincere wishes that they may be supported and sustained by all in this Organization.
From this process, which we trust will be successful, there will emerge once again the possibility of channelling more resources to development. It is inconceivable that material backwardness and human misery should continue to exist; and there is no possible justification for their increasing in a world whose global wealth is unprecedented. Will the international community ever be able to channel its resources in a constructive direction? When we celebrated the fortieth anniversary of the United Nations, we all had in mind the tragic economic, social and political conflicts from which the Organization was born. To date, however, we have for the most part been incapable of overcoming the lack of understanding which prevails as to how to bring prosperity within the reach of all.
The economic conflict still remains unchanged and is growing steadily worse. Imbalances in the world economy will lead us to disaster if the main countries involved do not assume their responsibilities with a full sense of obligation towards the international community. 
Perhaps the time has also come for the Secretary-General to take in hand the quest for a dialogue that will ensure that the international community takes a definite course of action to meet this unsatisfied need, a course of action in which external debt would occupy a prominent place. We certainly cannot go on having these kinds of parallel monologues in which the developed and the developing worlds have become entrenched. Perhaps we should renounce our traditional procedures and, through the Secretary-General's activity, bring the item before the highest political bodies and attempt to revive the philosophy and practice of co-operation to ensure development through joint agreement.
Economic problems are not unrelated to a host of others which we could begin to tackle in the same context. It has been said that Latin America is being absorbed by the underground drug economy. Radical measures have been required to deal with the crop areas, and, with increasing emphasis, relations between countries are to be made conditional on the eradication of this activity.
Venezuela, which has earned an authoritative position in the anti-drug struggle, is determined to act on all fronts, as we demonstrated in 1984 when we placed before the General Assembly the idea of adopting a convention against the traffic and consumption of illicit drugs - a convention that was subsequently approved unanimously. But we notice that no-one has taken the trouble to point out the existence of and to act against an economic situation that is nourished by and profits systematically from the drug economy, which fosters the creation of economic power centres and consolidates them and, in practice, serves as its financial agent.
It would certainly be relevant for the United Nations to reveal the linkage between some members of the international financial world and the underground drug economy. We might likewise explore the traffic in toxic wastes, which has now taken on special dimensions in that attempts are under way to transport to earth-based reservoirs - for the most part in the territories of developing countries - the garbage of a wasteful consumer society imposed on us as a model j transferring, hand in hand with that, habits of corruption to facilitate the continuance of this illicit, repugnant business.
As members will have been able to appreciate, my message to the General Assembly endeavours to take up again, on an ethical basis, some of the challenges we face. We should never lose sight of this, because civilization and its progress are inconceivable if they are not linked with the most intimate aspirations of our Individual and collective being. In this constant pursuit of the most elementary rights of States and men, we have all relied on the United Nations - as the appropriate forum not only for conveying our concerns but, what is more important, for channelling resources and establishing competent bodies and mechanisms.
United Nations efforts have made progress possible in matters to which we are particularly attached. I should like to mention some items which perhaps the distortion of priorities has downgraded to routine questions but which are still fully valid from our point of view. As is well known, Venezuela recognizes and promotes the interdependence of all human rights; political, economic, social and cultural. There are situations which constitute a permanent threat to those principles. Venezuela confirms it rejection of racial discrimination in South Africa - of which the classic example is Mandela's martyrdom - and affirms its solidarity with the people of Namibia, while urging that the talks and negotiations now under way should bring about the independence of that country.
For all those reasons, and because of the outstanding role the United Nations has played in bringing about peaceful solutions to international disputes, I reaffirm our solidarity with the Organization, express renewed faith in its principles and offer our best efforts in the service of the cause of peace and the coexistence of peoples.
Along those lines, I should like to emphasize the achievements of the United Nations in its endeavours to put an end to conflicts in regions that are particularly dear to us - such as the peace agreement in Afghanistan and the end of hostilities between Iraq and Iran, countries with which we maintain cordial and constructive relations.
It has been made evident that it is only the resolute will of the States involved that is capable of ending conditions favouring the attainment of specific objectives. For that reason, noting that in other regions there are definite prospects for peace, we urge the five Central American countries signatories of the Procedure for the Establishment of a Firm and Lasting Peace in Central America to devote themselves to complying with their commitments, regardless of the interference of elements alien to the area. The political dialogue between them should be restored genuinely and promptly, with a large dose of determination and with each party doing its share to put an end to a conflict that is being needlessly prolonged. We trust that reason will prevail, that peace and friendly coexistence in freedom and democracy will be the symbols of that cherished region.
We know that all United Nations organs are prepared to continue performing the tasks entrusted to them and to face in a constructive way any situation that threatens the well-being of mankind. Nevertheless, it is fitting to recall the serious financial difficulties which the United Nations has undergone - difficulties that require our utmost attention. It is clearly understood that it is the duty of all its Member States to contribute to supporting it on a permanent basis. 
My final words today, as the representative of a country that is democratic in spirit and in action, ace to wish the United Nations success in its primary purpose of ensuring peace and security for the world. Venezuela will always stand by the United Nations, devised and created for the sake and the benefit of universal mankind.


===== Session 44 - 1989 =====
﻿
Mr. President, it is a great pleasure for me to extend to you the greetings and congratulations of Venezuela's people and Government on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly of the United Nations at this session. My congratulations go also to the other members of the Bureau. At the same time, we address words of thanks to the outgoing President, Mr. Dante Caputo, for the extraordinary manner in which he carried out his tasks at the last session, as well as to the Secretary-General, Javier Perez de Cuellar, for the excellent work he has done.
In the last decade of the twentieth century, we must pause to reflect on the history and experience of this century. Today we can begin to assess what these last 10 years of our century will be and should be. The super-Powers have entered into a period of detente, accommodation and co-operation, with vital initiatives, particularly with regard to nuclear and conventional disarmament, and a determination to solve and not to interfere in regional conflicts that have brought so much human and material harm to the countries of the third world.
This irrational period of the cold war has also left behind a tragic situation   the world's economy and a crisis from which the great power cannot escape, because no economy can finance unlimited military spending. We have all paid for this, but most especially the countries of the third world. 	It would seem, that we can at long last discern a willingness by the international society to tolerate its own diversity and to act jointly to reduce and whenever possible remove sources of tension and convicts we had virtually grown accustomed to living with. I wish to express Venezuela's appreciation of the initiatives of detente and disarmament undertaken by the super-Powers, and express to their leaders our confidence in their determination and perseverance. If the major blocs manage to arrive at concerted action, we shall at long last begin to overcome the cold war and the threat of nuclear warfare.
Thirteen years ago on 16 November 1976, I came to this rostrum as President of Venezuela. On that occasion I said that the global political balance ostensibly rested on peaceful coexistence - peaceful coexistence which by its very name only meant a longer or shorter truce. I defined the separation, the dismembering, of world into antagonistic blocs, for interdependence to achieve equality and co-operation among equals had not prevailed in the relations between powerful countries and between the  powerful and the weaker countries. I then proposed, as I do today, the establishment of a new international economic order, for, otherwise, the world's political balance will continue to be in serious jeopardy. 
As I recall those words, I must acknowledge with deep concern, now that the sovereign will of my people has brought me once again to the presidency that, tragically, the call I then made to the conscience of the developed countries remains timely. Throughout all these years the developed countries' relations with the weaker, developing nations have deteriorated. Not only has trade between North and South become even more unfair than it was 13 years ago, but the situation has worsened substantially through the decade now ending, with the unbearable problem of debt.
As regards this crisis that undermines the stability of the debtor countries, no one can claim that there have not been enough warnings or that successive formulas for its solution have not been presented. Venezuela has always been willing to explore such formulas. It is not acceptable that debtor countries should continue to finance the growth of industrialized nations through net transfers of resources. It is essential to reverse this trend so that the developing countries may be able to finance their own sustained growth and their peoples' well-being.
Initiatives aimed at reducing both the amount of debt and the cost of servicing - particularly those embodied in the so-called Brady plan - are positive steps that confirm the political nature of the crisis and the principle of co-responsibility for its solution. However, the contributions offered by creditor nations and by international commercial banks remain insufficient - to say the least.
The efforts we can all make to solve the debt problem cannot be divorced from the general evolution of relations between the third world and the industrialized countries. The gravity of the situation, so often pointed to, lies in the fact that the existing economic relations between North and South have compromised, and continue to compromise, our possibilities for development. It is clear to all that, without sustained economic growth, the essential investment in social and political areas is impossible.
The alarming aspect of this situation is that, as yet, there is no clear vision or awareness in the developed countries of what is really at stake. What could be more brittle or unpredictable than societies that have no hope and no confidence? It is claimed that harsh economic adjustments will be sufficient. Indeed, Venezuela believes those to be necessary, but without a solution to the debt problem, without broader external support, those adjustments are not feasible, and the political stability of our countries, and even the world's political balance, are endangered.
Ultimately, crises are brought about by failure to interpret objectively existing risk indicators and by lack of willingness to commit the necessary ideas and resources to prevent them. The debt crisis requires the same long-range vision as was applied to Japan and Europe after the war. What is at stake is the destiny of mankind. Almost one third of the world's population is unable to achieve a solution to the problem of economic growth as a prerequisite to the possibility of servicing the debt. The danger of a social explosion embracing over 1 billion human beings will not be avoided, and the consequences of that explosion will be felt in the industrialized nations, which look with unprecedented coldness upon the rapid deterioration of the situation*
This year Venezuela has become a full member of the Non-Aligned Movement. In so doing, we have joined the great community of third world countries, which recognize non-alignment as the choice most consonant with our reality and aspirations, and which trust in the strength of unity to give our positions the weight they need to promote changes in contemporary politics and economics.
Venezuela has always placed special emphasis on the importance of relations between developing countries. We are convinced that we, the countries of the third world, will never be able to exercise fully our political sovereignty, or to achieve equity in our economic relations with developed countries, unless we substantially enhance South-South relations, as an indispensable premise for strengthening our bargaining capacity. International society need not be condemned permanently to be governed by the patterns of the past. That is clear from what is happening today in East-West relations and from the efforts of European countries to assert their identity and explore new avenues. The international system must evolve and reflect today's pluralism. It is our aim to ensure that developing countries - our culture, our economies and our political realities - are fully incorporated into a multipolar world. It is with this vision, which transcends conflicts and highlights affinities and common potential, that we strive to equip ourselves with the institutions we need to be able to speak out and to act more effectively.
Venezuela, like other developing countries, is aware of the need to work towards revitalizing the North-South dialogue. In this regard Venezuela stated its position at the forty-third session of the General Assembly. It reiterated that position at the twenty-fifth anniversary meeting of the Group of 77, held in Caracas in June  in the Paris initiative, taken by the Presidents of Egypt, Senegal and Venezuela and by the Prime Minister of India during their meeting on the occasion of the bicentennial of the French Revolution; and, more recently, at the meeting of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, where it was firmly supported by all the Movement's members, and a group of 15 countries, representing Africa, Asia, Latin America and Europe, was established. That group will hold annual meetings, at the level of Heads of State or Government, to discuss issues of interest to the countries that make up the South.
Latin America, despite the changes it has gone through, is not immune to political difficulties. Allow me to mention in particular the evolution of the Central American situation. The latest developments, as illustrated by the Tela agreements, in Honduras, confirm that, with autonomy, with confidence and with international support, the Central American countries will be able to achieve peace. 
We also welcome the agreement reached by El Salvador with the leaders of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front on a suspension of hostilities and the beginning of negotiations with the Government of El Salvador which would enable those leaders to become involved in the political and democratic process of that country.
Few cases have better illustrated than those in Latin America the harm caused by foreign interference, based on false premises of strategic interest.
Elsewhere in Central America we are watching with concern developments in Panama. The abrogation of its democratic process, apart from denying the sovereign right of the Panamanian people to choose its own Government, is a factor destabilizing the vigorous process of democratisation in Latin America. Nothing would be more unacceptable to us than a crisis that would call into question the Torrerijos-Carter Treaties, which we consider to be an accomplishment of Latin American solidarity and a commitment uniting all our peoples.
Those of us who, like Venezuela, have a direct responsibility in this historical   claim   of Latin America, cannot view with indifference the build-up of elements of tension. Nothing can be more important for Latin America than to have the Panamanian community democratically settle its disagreements and to see the provisions of the Canal Treaties complied with to the letter. 
I wish to say how pleased we Venezuelans are to see the beginning of a process that will lead to self-determination for the Puerto Rican people. We are linked to Puerto Rico by strong ties of history and culture. However, only the people of Puerto Rico can decide its future. This year there have been new developments, and Venezuela trusts that they will soon make it possible for the preferences of the people of Puerto Rico to be made known in a free expression of sovereign will. We cannot conceal the fact that we Latin Americans wish to see Puerto Rico become another Latin nation, like those our liberators dreamed of and fought for. In those cases, which I have mentioned, because of their importance for Venezuela and for Latin America as a whole, a fundamental role is played by the United States of America. Venezuela hopes that friendly country will continue its present course of favouring multilateral dialogue and continued consultations. We are convinced that that is the only way for the American continent to advance towards the achievement of those values to which we all subscribe, both within the inter-American system and within the United Nations system.
Venezuela strives for close relations and co-operation in its foreign policy. We still have difficult historical obstacles to overcome. One is the reconciliation of our Latin American, continental and Caribbean identities. We had been separated from the Caribbean by colonialism and its divisive sequels. Today we can applaud the great advances the nations of the Caribbean have made in fostering their own identity and their admirable efforts at rapprochement with the rest of our region. Those countries not only are our neighbours and friends, but are also an inextricable part of Latin America with which we share opportunities and hopes in a common future.
To conclude the presentation of our views on Latin American affairs, I shall refer briefly to the Group of Eight. This year there will be held in Lima, Peru, the third presidential meeting of the permanent mechanism for political consultation and co-ordination. This mechanism has transformed the scope of our relations in Latin America and our approach to them.
Venezuela reiterates its rejection of colonialism and all forms of racial discrimination. We share the deep concern of the other Members of the United Nations, particularly the countries of southern Africa, over the persistence of the genocidal system of apartheid, which is a Nazi-style violation of human rights, a crime against humanity. We welcome with great satisfaction the holding of a special session of the General Assembly on apartheid.
I turn to the subject of decolonisation. We have consistently supported initiatives aimed at removing the last vestiges of colonialism, particularly those relating to the independence of Namibia and the implementation of the Security Council's plan for that purpose. We trust that the countries directly involved in solving the problem will continue to show the necessary political will to bring the process to a successful conclusion with the holding of the elections scheduled for November, under United Nations supervision.
We are watching with hope developments with regard to the problem of Western Sahara. We support the initiatives of the Secretary-General and reaffirm our conviction that direct dialogue will contribute effectively to recognition of the rights of the Sahraoui people, the resolution of the conflict and the process of integration in the Mahgreb.
We Latin Americans must include in this survey the case of the Malvinas. We trust that the Argentine Republic and the United Kingdom, in keeping with resolutions of the United Nations and international law and solidarity, will initiate talks aimed at settling the controversy concerning sovereignty over those islands in the South Atlantic, which have formed part of the Argentine Republic since we Latin American peoples became independent from Spain.
I cannot fail to mention the dreadful tragedy of Lebanon, a land torn by a suicidal and diabolical conflict. The Lebanese people deserve the support and protection of the world. We commend the decision of the Arab League to set up a commission made up of the sovereigns of Saudi Arabia and Morocco and the President of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria to mediate in that horrible and absurd conflict. Venezuela appeals to the United Nations to show the greatest diligence in bringing about an end to the terrible massacres and violations of human rights, and we shall co-operate in any initiative in which we can play a useful part.
In view of their paramount importance for the life of our societies and for international security, I shall now touch upon the problems of drugs and the environment. In 1984 Venezuela put forward a draft convention (resolution 39/141, annex) concerning the struggle against illicit trafficking in narcotics and psychotropic substances. We are happy to see today ever-growing support for that draft convention.
At the non-aligned Summit, Venezuela, together with other Latin American countries, recently proposed other initiatives with regard to the prevention of and action against the laundering of money proceeding from drug trafficking. A systematic effort is being made in our countries and at a sub regional Andean level to eradicate that evil.
This year, the gravity and extent of that crime against humanity have been highlighted by the current events in Colombia. International solidarity has remained more a matter of words than of deeds. Let us look, for example, at the behaviour of the United States. Undoubtedly, that country came to the fore in offering solidarity and material aid, but instead of such circumstantial aid, would it not have been more important to strengthen the Colombian economy by supporting the International Coffee Agreement?
But that was not the case. Besieged by drug-trafficking dollars, the coffee-growing countries, Colombia and other indebted countries such as Brazil amongst them, have seen their resources dwindle as a result of the United States' refusal to subscribe to the agreements of the International Coffee Organization. Prices have plummeted. How can we fight drug-trafficking in those circumstances, with such low prices for our commodities and such heavy debts?
Nevertheless, we welcome the agreement reached at the Paris Summit. We are convinced that little can be achieved without forceful action upon demand. It is up to the producer countries to fight the trafficking, but the consumer countries must also drastically curb their demand, since that is what makes the struggle against drug-trafficking so much more difficult.
 The fight against drug-trafficking must be relentless and forceful. Let us not forget that, besides the erosion of our institutions and its impact upon health, drug trafficking and consumption are linked to terrorism, clandestine arms trafficking, the revival of mercenary activities, and the violation of human rights.
I must say that despite all that 1 have stated in a spirit of optimism, the fight against drugs must be the subject of international legislation sponsored by the United Nations in a world conference that will confront this crime which knows no frontiers and which uses them only to evade and trample upon our sovereignty and well-being.
At the Ninth Summit of Heads of State or Government of the Non-Aligned Countries in Belgrade, I proposed the convening of a world conference to discuss an international convention against drug-trafficking that would be binding on all countries of the world.
As to the environment, allow me to reiterate what I have said in other forums. Development and the environment are interrelated. Until now, they have been inimical. It is necessary for developed and developing countries to approach the problem jointly and to reconcile our perspectives in a united effort that will enable us to preserve our environmental heritage without detriment to our common right to development.
I wish to propose that the Members of the United Nations formulate a convention that will commit all of us. My country belongs to an essential region of the world, the immense Amazonia. The eight nations making up that region have established the Amazonian Pact whereby, without relinquishing our sovereignty, we have sought to ensure its conservation as a patrimony of mankind and as a legacy of nature to the development and wealth of our nations.
Venezuela fully supports the special session of the General Assembly devoted to international economic co-operation, in particular to the revitalization of the economic growth and development of developing countries to be held in April 1990. We shall be present at that important event. We also wish to express our great interest in seeing the successful completion of the preliminary work being done on the international development strategy for the fourth United Nations development decade.
Let us dedicate the next decade of the twentieth century to the preservation of children, the future of mankind in the third millennium of our world. Let us set about reducing by half the death rate of children as well as of mothers. Let us strive for a universal primary school education and the elimination of severe malnutrition.
In this forum of mankind, I should like to invite you all to subscribe to the Declaration of the Rights of the Child, which represents the consensus of all the Governments of the world as to the minimum guarantees that every society must offer to its children. That must become the new international ethic. Venezuela will support in the Assembly this agreement aimed at safeguarding the most extensively violated rights of the world - the rights of children. We shall also support the holding of a world summit devoted to childhood, as proposed by the United Nations Children's Fund. To the Prime Minister of Sweden, who was the first to support that summit, we offer our full co-operation in sponsoring it, together with the other nations wishing to join that initiative.
In April of this year, at the 12th meeting of Ministers of Health of the Andean Countries in Caracas, I suggested the convening of a Latin American regional summit. Our regional statistics are truly alarming. One million children under the age of five die every years 360,000 in Brazil, 175,000 in Mexico, 245,000 in the Andean countries. Every Latin American child is born with an external debt of $32,000 and a social debt of $23,000. Every newborn child receives a historical liability of 360,000, equivalent to more than 25 time3 our nations' gross domestic product per capita. In sum, in Latin America most of the children are poor and most of the poor are children.
Human eclipse or social development! that is the choice facing mankind on the eve of the third millennium.
We have come to the United Nations to advocate international co-operation. Let us not close our eyes to the countless dangers that we face at this promising moment. Let us take note of the dangers and work together to further the prevalence of reason. The economic and social problems our peoples face are immense, and we have no right to postpone solutions or open the door to conflict and instability. Strategic confrontation dominated the best minds of this past century. Perhaps it is now time to turn our eyes upon ourselves, upon our peoples and our societies, to assess their condition, their moral wants, their crises, and attempt to find solutions.
 		This will make us realize how mistaken we have been this last, turbulent half of the twentieth century, and will open a gateway of hope so that, as we approach this magical date of the third millennium, we may be confident that in the new century all nations of the world will be able to march forward together in a spirit, of solidarity, with a single aims to ensure the well being of all mankind.


===== Session 45 - 1990 =====
﻿On behalf of my Government, allow me to congratulate you very sincerely. Sir, on your election to the presidency of the General Assembly, Your personal qualities and experience are a sure guarantee of an efficient and productive co-ordination of the work of this session. Your election is also a well-deserved tribute to your country, Malta, a land of age-old culture, continually present in the history of the Western world. 
I wish to take this opportunity to express our appreciation to your predecessor, Mr. Joseph Garba, who guided the activities of the Assembly's preceding session with skill, wisdom and balance.
We take special pleasure in welcoming two new Member States: the Republic of Namibia and the Principality of Liechtenstein. Venezuela has been an unswerving supporter of the Namibian people's struggle for independence. As a member of the United Nations Council for Namibia, Venezuela cook an active part in the Council's determined defence of the Namibian cause. We hail the advent of Namibia to independent life and its accession to membership in the international community as a sovereign nation after seven decades of domination by the infamous apartheid regime of South Africa, the shame of mankind. 
Having gained its political independence, Namibia seeds to achieve the economic and social developments necessary to consolidate independent statehood and a democratic society. The support of the international community is essential if it is to meet those goals. Venezuela has already approached the Namibian authorities with a view to identifying possibilities for co-operation in the fields of energy, mining and fisheries. At the Multilateral level, Venezuela has also pledged to contribute to co-operation projects for Namibia.
With respect to the interminable and ominous conflict of apartheid. Venezuela calls upon all nations not to suspend or case sanctions against South Africa until the conclusion of agreements that put into effect President De Klerk's efforts and meet leader Nelson Mandela's proposals.
I must express ay great pleasure at the reunification of Germany, which will be formalised on 3 October - an event we Venezuelans view as the culmination of a difficult stage of history and as the beginning of a new stage which will provide a lasting example of the peaceful building of a new international order. We share the joy of the German people and express our hope that this event will show the entire world the fruits of reconciliation end understanding.
I represent a country of profound democratic commitment and a long tradition of peace. Our international activities have always focused on removing every obstacle to harmony and co-operation between nations. For that reason we welcome and support initiatives submitted to the General Assembly to strengthen the fundamental responsibility of the United Nations to guarantee the two inseparable objectives of world peace and international justice, particularly now that events we could never have predicted only a few months ago have led for the first time since the Second World War to steady progress towards genuine global understanding. 
These sudden changes in the structure of international relations call for a careful study of international ethics, which are so often infringed upon by great Powers and by regional conflicts. There is dramatic proof today that the considerable reduction in the nuclear threat and East-West detente do not necessarily mean the disappearance of serious international conflicts. The present crisis in the Persian Gulf is a painful ease in point.
During the last turbulent 45 years of world history, nuclear peace has been achieved by means of an ambiguous balance, cynically called the balance of terror, which has continually pushed aside other available control mechanisms. Venezuela rejects that monstrous approach to restraining bipolar confrontation, confident that the reply to the threat of international anarchy or regional conflict does not lie in mutual threats or military escalation. We have always believed it possible to construct an equilibrium for peace, based on justice, equal rights for all peoples to enjoy their resources; we have always believed that all peoples have a right to well-being^ allowing for e genuine system of collective security, the raison d'etre of the United Nations. That is why we have always advocated ā new international economic order which we must keep free of any tinge of confrontation. We believe that now that the cold war is over, there are new prospects for more intensive programmes of disarmament and greater co-operation for development. We believe that today more than ever before the United Nations has a chance to attain the universal dream of an equilibrium for peace based on understanding and co-operation. Dialogue for concerted international action in the economic sphere must be initiated.
Last August, at its Caracas meeting, the South Commission, under the chairmanship of the former President of Tanzania, Julius Nyerere, issued its final report, a valuable and exhaustive document written in the language of dialogue characteristic of these new times. It deserves to become a basic instrument that can inspire constructive dialogue between North and South.
Venezuela would also like the end of bipolar confrontation to bring about the disappearance of a system whereby some Powers believe they have the obligation or the right to assume the individual role of taking control and ensuring the security of the world. Now that the East-West confrontation is over, the United Nations should perform that function in the name of international law and the principles of the Charter signed by all the countries represented here. In his historic address to the Assembly, the Foreign Minister of the Soviet Union, Mr. Eduard Shevardnadze, spoke along those lines.
A mechanism must be devised to ensure the implementation of decisions and sanctions adopted by the United Nations in response to aggression against any of its Members; to facilitate the demilitarization of conflicts through law-enforcement and support activities in regions where the adversaries in a conflict feel threatened, as was recently the case in Namibia and Nicaragua; or to support efforts at peace-making and democratization. All this would encourage States that feel attacked or threatened to look to the United Nations for a response within the Organization rather than bolstering their security at the expense of their peoples, through a costly arms race. It will be possible to achieve the non-proliferation of new and increasingly destructive weapons only if there is an alternative mechanism of effective deterrence.
If the United Nations cannot provide that assurance, resources will continue to be diverted from education, health, nutrition, growth and development to offensive and defensive arsenals in an illusory race for autonomous security and defence. Venezuela agrees with those who say that the end of confrontation between the super-Powers opens the way to great opportunities for peace, but also to great risks. The ability of the great Powers to influence or settle any future problems or conflicts is, paradoxically, negligible. For the most part, existing problems are of a global nature, affecting all nations, which are linked in general interdependence in all areas - from the economy, trade and welfare to the environment and natural resources. 
Although it is urgently necessary to secure the benefits brought by the end of the cold war and to take additional measures to reduce to a minimum the risk of conflicts between nations there is an equally pressing need to find safe and reliable ways to implement the other tenets supporting the multilateral system, such as the right to both economic and social development. A year ago at this same forum for international dialogue, I proposed that we dedicate this last decade of the century to the children, with the aim of substantially reducing infant mortality, making primary schooling available world-wide and eradicating severe malnutrition. I also invited us all to sign the Convention on the Rights of the Child as part of the new international ethics. The signing of the Convention by a majority of the States Members of the United Nations the Children's Summit held last weekend and the disappearance of East-West tensions all combine to create a climate conducive to a global commitment to go beyond statements of good intentions and deal with the task of combating child mortality, protecting nursing infants and pregnant women, effectively improving their health and securing for children a proper education and qualification for work.
I realise that such a massive programme requires substantial resources, so I propose that Member States agree on a 10 per cent reduction in our military budgets and allocate that 10 per cent to a United Nations fund for social development, to be used in a frontal assault on the poverty that crushes and exterminates hundreds of millions of children throughout the world.
As is shown by the recent experience of Latin America, if the progress of
democracy in our countries is to become irreversible we need a final solution to the problems of critical and extreme poverty. The inevitable programmes of macro-economic adjustment, essential if we are to modernize our societies, cannot advance without parallel action against hunger, unemployment and lack of opportunity, which begin with malnutrition and lack of health care in childhood and continue with lack of study opportunities and employment opportunities for the young.
Latin America is now fully committed to democracy as a political system. But democracy cannot be sustained on a social foundation of persistent poverty. The repeated demands for more favourable trade conditions and better economic and financial international relations are not mere rhetoric. The establishment of a new world order is essential for resolving the basic conflict of inequality between human beings. An attitude springing from basic ethics must govern relations between the most powerful countries and the poorest. On 16 November 1976, at this same rostrum of mankind, I said;
"The building of a new international economic order is an imperative for peace ... Otherwise," I said then and repeat now "the political balance of the world will be in serious jeopardy." (A/31.PV 67 para. 16)
This is a time of historical transition. Now that we are 10 years away from the twenty-first century ideological schemes conceived in the nineteenth century no longer apply in our present reality. As a Latin American, I must express my concern over the way in which economic variables receive more emphasis than political and social ones. The modernization of our societies cannot ignore the importance of internal balance. If social conflicts arise in developing nations, if the gap between their inhabitants deepens, conditions will inevitably become ripe for international imbalances. Our peoples want to live in a democracy, but there is no democracy without social justice. 
International co-operation cannot be contingent solely upon the formal reorganization of government finances in countries suffering critically from fiscal imbalances. We must find an answer to the fiscal crisis, but we must also find an answer to the social crisis. In truth, fiscal and social crises are but two sides of the same coin. International co-operation must directly address the structural issues of the crisis, eliminating protectionist tendencies in developed countries, the ever more intolerable effects of foreign debt and the absurd attitude that the necessities of macro-economic adjustments are merely a technical problem, with no social impact or political consequences.
Latin America received with interest and satisfaction the Americas Initiative proposed by the President of the United States, Mr. George Bush. The proposal of a free-trade zone with the north of the American continent raises the hope that the veil of silence and the misunderstandings that have marked relations between the two Americas will now begin to vanish. We sincerely hope that the Americas Initiative will initiate a definitive break with isolation. As the world rapidly moves towards big economic blocs, the United States and Latin America cannot continue to turn their backs on each other, as they have for decades. We shall now need each other.
In the long run the Americas Initiative could create conditions for the benefits of competition, now gravely lacking in our economic and trade relations, to be felt. The structural changes to be brought about by free trade and access to a bigger market would spur our economic growth. The elimination of discrimination against countries in the southern part of the American hemisphere would create conditions favourable to joint negotiations. Yet, at the same time, the Americas Initiative poses a formidable challenge to Latin American countries. We shall no longer be able to hide behind the rhetoric of integration. If we want to participate in the successful development of this project, we must carry out the tasks essential for intensifying co-operation between ourselves and strengthening intra-regional trade. We must develop strategic alliances between Governments, public and private institutions and research centres of the countries involved, and promote the establishment of networks of linked production and service enterprises, encouraging the setting of uniform technical standards. 
It is only by raising the level of intra-Latin American interdependence that We can become competitive at the international level. We Latin American countries must seriously explore the liberalisation of our reciprocal trade. We must strengthen our co-operation in transport and bolster the institutions promoting its integration. Only then will we avoid the delusion of believing that we might accede individually to the benefits o£ the Americas Initiative.
It is indeed paradoxical that, in the present post-cold-war climate of progress in integration and the appearance of a new spirit favouring international co-operation, we see winds of war blowing over our planet. The crisis in the Persian Gulf concerns us all and particularly countries that, like Venezuela, are producers of oil and members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). From the moment Iraq invaded Kuwait, Venezuela strove to create a framework for negotiation. We do not believe in a military solution to the conflict. We insist on a political way out of the crisis. Arab nations have a decisive role to play, and as part of the Western Hemisphere and as partners in OPEC we should encourage that. We have tried to use the multiple levels on which we act to generate agreements that would reduce the effects of the conflict on the world's oil markets.
In this respect, I should like to emphasise the responsible and stabilising course taken by OPEC, an organisation in its thirtieth year of existence. The great nations of the industrialised North - the main oil importers - must acknowledge that if OPEC had not decided temporarily to cover the market deficit, the escalation in oil prices and the consequent destabilisation of the world's economy would have been much worse.
Neither OPEC nor the industrialised world can allow abrupt price increases, nor can we tolerate - once the Gulf crisis is resolved - equally abrupt drops in the price of crude. Such excessive fluctuations are harmful to us all, consumers and producers alike, and only favour speculators who do not care much about the well-being of nations or the world economy.
We share in this responsibility as producers of a large portion of today's market and, above all, as possessors of the greatest crude reserves. Exploitation of these resources is what will guarantee the world's future needs in energy. However, it will require prices that secure regular revenues for the producers and sufficient resources to finance the investments necessary to ensure present levels of production and replenishment of reserves. For many decrees to come oil will continue to be a fundamental ingredient of development, and neither producers nor consumers can permit a state of disarray in the oil market.
I hereby propose an oil conference of producers and consumers, under the auspices of the United Nations, to be convened urgently in order to address, once and for all, the political reality of oil. The first step of such an encounter should be a meeting of the OPEC countries and the International Energy Agency.
I should like on this occasion to reiterate our concern regarding the impact of excessively high oil prices on the development plans of third world countries that are totally dependent on oil imports. For the last 10 years Mexico and Venezuela have tried to reduce this impact on the economies of Central America and the Caribbean through the San Jose Agreement. However, this kind of solidarity cannot be undertaken unilaterally and must be part of global solutions whereby industrialised nations seriously assume their responsibilities regarding international co-operation. 
The industrialised countries must share the responsibly for economic growth and political stability in that vulnerable region of the hemisphere so as to prevent new explosions of violence or unlimited continuation of existing ones. We oil-producing countries are aware of the need to help the oil-importing countries of the third world with compensation measures such as the OPEC Fund or the San José Agreement. We shall continue to do so. But we think that the commitments of the countries that can afford more should be extended.
Just as OPEC assumed its share of responsibility in raising production to offset the temporary scarcity of crude on the international markets, and inasmuch as the great Powers seek to have others share the cost of a military presence in the Persian Gulf, countries with fewer resources need support in overcoming the situation of scarce supply and high oil prices.
In this respect, allow me to express my satisfaction at the proposal made by the President of France, Mr. Francois Mitterrand, to begin
"discussion of a comprehensive plan for assistance to the developing world, a plan that would be fed by new resources and that would lay the ground for an in-depth consideration of the subject by all the participants in what could well become a tragedy to end all tragedies if we do not make up our minds to change our ways, to step up our pace and to rethink our goals." 

Thus, we urge the more powerful nations to co-operate in meeting the energy demand of the poorer countries in a manner that may be stable and permanent, rather than accidental or fortuitous. Venezuela, together with our partners in OPEC and other oil-exporting countries not members of OPEC, such as Mexico, is willing to proceed with co-operation programmes such as the San José Agreement, but we also look forward to hearing proposals from large industrialised nations in support of the stabilisation we advocate. 
What this Assembly may decide will set the guiding principles for the role the international community wants the United Nations to play at this critical time of transition. We now begin to realise, at long last, that many of its past limitations were due to the bipolar conflict. Now that the conflict is over and the ensuing reforms are on course, we aspire to return to the original postulates of the Organization, by revising the Charter if necessary, to make the Organisation fully and democratically capable of intervening preventively in the many problems of the world and of addressing those already looming at a distance, of which I would make particular mention of those related to peace and economic and social development, where so much joint effort is still needed.
All the nations of the world, and particularly the militarily and economically powerful ones, must understand that it is only through a body of international ethics, based on genuine respect for international law as embodied in the Charter and in Treaties and Conventions signed by all States under the sponsorship of the United Nations, that justice, peace and world stability can be upheld. 
There have been frequent violations of these principles, treaties and conventions in the past. Yet it is precisely row, at this new stage that holds out such promise for mankind, that the world has unanimously rejected the violation of Kuwait's sovereignty by Iraq This must become the beginning of a new, genuine international ethic in which any kind of unilateral intervention is outlawed and international order is re-established by the submission to the United Nations and other international bodies of any existing or looming conflicts. The occupied Palestinian territories and Cambodia, to give just two examples of conflicts of major significance to the world, must be acted upon by the United Nations, after the sovereignty of Kuwait has been restored.
I cannot conclude without referring to the co-operation we expect from the United Nations, including the General Assembly, in regard to conflicts of concern to the countries of Latin America. I refer here to peace in El Salvador and to the electoral process in Haiti.	
The efforts exerted by the Secretary-General with the FMLN and the Salvadorian Government are of tremendous importance and worthy of praise. We hope that the Assembly will give its full support to the Secretary-General's initiatives and urge both the FMLN and the Government of El Salvador to eliminate existing obstacles to an agreement that will restore peace and well-being to a people devastated by more than a decade of fratricidal war.
The Haitian people want democracy and peace. They need the solidarity of the world in their efforts to emerge from their distressing state of exhaustion after long years of cruel dictatorship. I should like to request the General Assembly at this forty-fifth session to adopt the draft resolution submitted by Latin American and Caribbean countries, in regard to the support requested of the United Nations by the Government of Haiti for the holding of an election next December. 

I should like to conclude by expressing Venezuela’s support for and full confidence in the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Peres de Cuellar. His leadership, prudent yet steadfast, has brought about many of the changes we have witnessed in recent years. To him and all the staff working with him, we extend our gratitude. We express the hope that they will continue their outstanding work in the interest of the international community, at this new, promising stage of the Organisation's life.


===== Session 46 - 1991 =====
﻿Mr. President, I have come before the representatives of the community of nations in order to express my country's views on the great issues of our times and to reaffirm our commitment to understanding and solidarity.But before beginning my statement I would like to extend my most sincere congratulations to Mr. Samir Shihabi on his election as President of the United Nations General Assembly at the forty-sixth session and, on behalf of Venezuela, I would like express our enthusiastic welcome to the nations that are joining our Organisation - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, the Republic of Korea, the People's Republic of Korea, Micronesia and the Marshall Islands.These deliberations are taking place at a time when a new international order is being defined and when the developing countries cannot be absent.We, the countries represented here, must ensure that the momentous significance of this exceptional time is not weakened or tarnished and that the promising momentum unleashed by these breathtaking changes remains unabated.Behind us lie chapters of confrontation, intransigence and inflexibility and times of sterile, senseless controversies, dominated by the terrifying euphemism of nuclear deterrence.The prospects of a less conflictive world should not make us postpone action on, or sidestep the challenges and dilemmas facing us. Some of them are old; others are new, left over from a bipolar world that still moulds historical events in terms of inequality and injustice. The building of peace requires an innovative look, not only at the conflicts still persisting, but also at the pressing economic and social problems experienced by the vast majority of mankind and the growing gap between poverty and prosperity. Let us move now from East-West confrontation to a North-South co-operation that will lead to a single united world. It is time to ask both the United States and Cuba to cease the confrontation which began in the context of the cold war. Let us have confidence that Cuba will open itself to the universal concept of democracy as we would all wish and that the United States will be open to a dialogue that puts an end to sanctions that have lost all justification and validity.The evolution of relations between the United States and the Soviet Union, the latter immersed in a process of vital political and economic choice, dominates the world scene, which is fraught with expectation and uncertainty.The after-effects of the Iraq-Kuwait conflict, compounded by the interminable crisis in the Middle East, have reawakened and brought to the forefront the need to devise a new world order that will put an end to such situations.May I take this opportunity to express our firmest support for the efforts made by United States Secretary of State, Mr. Baker, to promote a conference of countries involved in the Arab-Israeli conflict that threatens to jeopardise the dramatic process ending the occupation of Kuwait. Events in the Middle East, the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Asia and Africa reveal serious obstacles to the achievement of a new world order, making it necessary to redefine international security and devise more efficient mechanisms. Tensions of a territorial, ethnic or religious nature and an upsurge of nationalism have given rise to serious problems of inexplicable virulence.The threat of disintegration of the State of Yugoslavia cannot be viewed by the United Nations as an internal problem. Venezuela associates itself with those who have called for the restoration of peace in Yugoslavia and we support the position of those Members of the Organization who are encouraging discussion in the Security Council.Interdependence is a phenomenon brought about by the complex realities of the contemporary world, but it must cease to be a new form of dependence which hinders efforts made to incorporate the countries of the South into the international economy, as has been stated in the report of the South Commission of which I was a member. In this context, the Non-Aligned Movement is acquiring a unique importance with the disappearance of the ideological rhetoric of the past. Its task will now be to participate actively in encouraging South-South cooperation and in promoting dialogue with the North.I venture to say with optimism that the new historic age that is beginning will lead to the inclusion on the international agenda of a comprehensive approach to North-South relations so that interdependence will be understood as an interweaving of problems and solutions. There are many useful areas and actions that could lead to the use of a new methodology in North-South relations. Environmental conservation and the struggle against drug trafficking are of universal priority.Such questions lie in the future of continental and Caribbean Latin America. Last year in this forum, we spoke of the progress democracy had made in our countries, and said that, for this process to be irreversible, a solution had to be found to the problems of critical and extreme poverty. The inevitable macroeconomic adjustment programmes, necessary for the modernization of our societies, cannot proceed without a concurrent war against hunger, unemployment and lack of opportunity.The democracies that have become stabilized in Latin America will not be secure if the governments of the area cannot significantly improve the quality of life of their people. Our democracies will not be able to survive if there is a massive increase in critical poverty and if social tensions are aggravated. We do not want aid. What we want is trade on reciprocal and balanced terms. We want a satisfactory conclusion to the Uruguay Round, which has been held up by trade confrontations between the United States and Europe, while our own trade is subject to a wide range of protectionist measures by the industrialised countries.He must acknowledge - and we Latin Americans have not done so in the past - that our relations with the United States are changing for the better. It somehow seems, however, that Europe has not yet been able to grasp the importance of our region, although we have advised the Community's senior officials of this fact.For this reason, we support the spirit of President Bush's Enterprise for the Americas initiative, which poses the long-term challenge of a hemispheric market and at the same time includes the essential factors of debt, trade, investment and development. However, we still see, both in North America and in Europe, restrictive practices, whereby we are required to develop open economies. Yet, our natural advantages are deemed to be unfair or are referred to as dumping practices, and our exports are denied access to other markets. We welcome the growing interest Japan and other Asian nations have shown in our region.We are making efforts to seek a solution to traditional territorial conflicts. We are working steadfastly to make the Latin American Economic System (SELA) a body of regional coordination and integration, and the Organization of American States (OAS) an effective instrument, attuned to the new urgent needs of the international context, an organization able to bring coherence to a hemispheric pact between the two large regions of the continent, north and south of the Rio Grande.We are confident that this year we will share the satisfaction of seeing a definitive end to the bloody conflict in Central America, with peace achieved in El Salvador, through the mediation of the Secretary-General, Mr. Javier Peres de Cuellar, to whom I should like to pay a tribute for his intelligent guidance of the United Nations during this last very complex decade.In order to complete this brief account of our Latin American vision of expectations and problems, may I say that we view with deep satisfaction the spectacular advances in our regional integration processes. The Andean Pact, the Common Market of the South, the Caribbean Community and the Group of Three have, among others, marked the new economic and integrationist history of Latin America; the Rio Group has become the political interlocutor for the coordination of regional action and its coherent international impact. In addition, we strongly support the beginning of the future hemispheric market through a process of trade integration, which is being conducted among the United States of America, Canada and Mexico.It has become a commonplace to say that the world is on the threshold of a new era, a new time, a new age. No subject could be more appealing this fall of 1991 in this great global forum, the United Nations. Yet, this is not the first time that we speak about a new order. In the past we have advocated a new world economic order, and here in the United Nations, for an entire decade, resounding voices from all parts of the world have been heard, warning of the pressing need to change the perception and management of world affairs, both economic and political. We do not believe that these voices have gone unheeded. On the contrary, our persistent discourse has yielded some fruit. First of all, one of its main arguments has been well corroborated. We warned that the arms race would lead the world into an unprecedented critical situation, and that growing military expenditure would create conflicts for the big Powers themselves.It was impossible to understand the obstinacy of the big Powers in recognising or heeding these warnings. Today, one of the great empires, that of the cold war, no longer exists. Military expenditure and the miniaturisation of our societies have yielded the anticipated results. It was naive to believe that what might be devastating for some could be beneficial for others. The military expenditure of the West is a mirror image of that in the former Soviet Union. The policies of systematic confrontation were abetted by the military-industrial complexes of the great Powers. The manipulation of fear and the manipulation of information about arsenals were well-known tactics.The twentieth century leaves a balance sheet worthy of deep reflection. Two devastating wars in the first half of the century, and in the second half a long cold war that spurred a broad range of challenges and confrontations, that fed the most unusual regional conflicts and that counted among their victims the developing countries that became the theatre and not just the audience of this struggle and in so doing became participants in its madness.The possibility of building a new world order is really just beginning. But for that order to come about and to be stable there must be prior acknowledgement of the fact that no one, no country, large or small, strong or weak, can remain on the sidelines or be dominant. The idea of democracy is prevailing the world over. It is becoming widespread and the right of peoples is being recognized.But we must understand that people consider democracy to mean well-being, progress in freedom, equitable economic and trade relations, an opening of markets, free communication among peoples, international cooperation, an end to domination and a balance between security and social expenditures.It is not enough, in gratifying our optimism, simply to proclaim that a new order is being born, A new order is not born just because the world balance of power has collapsed. Existing challenges are tenacious. Renascent nationalisms, ethnic and religious conflicts, regional disagreements, forces that arise with anarchical impetus as a dramatic response to many decades of repression will not be easily handled or overcome.The identity of all peoples, respect for them and protection of their values must be key factors in a new order so that political and religious dogmatisms abandon their resentments and do not become elements of de-stabilization. In this context we wish to mention the conflict beleaguering the people of the Sahara which must be solved with unconditional guarantees for the right to self-determination. We impatiently await the referendum that will enable the Sahraoui to join the democratic community of nations.We are living in a revolutionary era of communications, of technology and science, but our time has not brought about a revolution in education or in culture. This is the great paradox, a paradox illustrative of the deep crisis confronting us. The message conveyed to the peoples of the world is not a positive one. It is not directed at preserving our fundamental values or at teaching peoples how to live together. The revolution in communications places us in simultaneous contact with all existing conflicts; its impact naturally contributes towards exalting one's one conflicts over those more remote.To place such extraordinary technological resources at the service of culture, science, international cooperation and education, together with the need to protect children, is one of the challenges of the new world order that will bring back security and democracy to the world.Last year was the year of the summit on children, convened by the political will of Heads of State the world over. Today we are happy to see that 30 Members of the United Nations have held national conferences to devise programmes of action aimed at rescuing our children from the aggression of poverty and malnutrition.Here we to think that a new world order could be defined as a simple balance of military power or economic force, we would be prolonging the injustice and the discrimination that prevailed in the bipolar order that has passed.The time has come to approach seriously the issue of modernising and adapting United Nations mechanisms as a system of collective security. Otherwise we would be condemning n group of countries to an unbridled search for self-protection in the absence of a security system that can protect the weak against the strong.I responsibly heed the call of many peace-loving Governments so that our own people's aspiration for democracy can also become a permanent aspiration of the United Nations. The Organisation will not be strengthened unless an agreement is reached to eliminate the right of veto exercised by the permanent members of the Security Council, a right that responded to circumstances and realities that have ceased to exist. This mechanism runs counter to the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations and limits its effective contributions to collective security.The right to veto Security Council resolutions is a mechanism that limits the achievement of consensus among the Member States of the United Nations. The Security Council must be a representative body, and in no way should any of its members negate the majority view of the United Nations. If we want collective and democratic security, we must aspire to universal egalitarian law.I wish to propose formally that this Assembly entrust to a committee of experts the study of new foundations for the organization and functioning of the Security Council. The countries now holding a decisive privilege would be full-fledged permanent members of the Council and the membership might even be expanded. Decisions on collective security would need at least a qualified majority of its members to reflect the general will of the international community.Last year I suggested in this forum the convening of a meeting between oil-producing and consumer countries to coordinate the use and production of a resource fundamental to the welfare of our civilisation. In spite of some scepticism, the meeting was held with the explicit and constructive support of President Francois Mitterand. In July this year in Paris, major conclusions were reached as to ways and means of improving information and analysis of the energy world of the future.We also believe that there is an urgent need to achieve a new environmental order. He shall be attending the world conference on the environment in Brazil as a country from the Amazon region and as a member of the Amazon Pact, and we aspire to playing a leading role in the adoption of major global decisions in this respect.I cannot but refer to the second summit conference of the Group of Fifteen to be held in Caracas next November. The Group of Fifteen acts as a consulting forum for the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, to coordinate the policies of the South at the international level and to assist in the formulation and implementation of cooperation programmes.The year 1992 will mark the 500th anniversary of the encounter between Europe and America. On our continent, we are preparing o celebrate this event by considering the advances of our own history and its impact. We hope that the rest of the world represented here will share with us the celebration of this important historic event that changed the course of mankind.

===== Session 47 - 1992 =====
On 
behalf of Venezuela, I congratulate our President and the Government and 
people of Bulgaria on his election to preside over this session of the General 
Assembly. 
I welcome the new Member States, whose presence among us makes this 
Organization more universal. 
I also wish to place on record our gratitude to the Permanent 
Representative of Saudi Arabia, Ambassador Samir Shihabi, who presided over 
the work of the forty-sixth session with such distinction. 
We are meeting at a time of particular instability and uncertainty. The 
international system is trying to find a new order and basic principles and 
guidelines to enable us to build a more just and egalitarian world. We are 
living at a time of rapid historical change. The most dramatic events and the 

most unexpected changes are taking place before a seemingly helpless world 
leadership. 
The end of communism is already a thing of the past; the collapse of the 
Soviet empire is ancient history. The absolute triumph of the West is 
beginning to be questioned, given the financial and exchange rate problems 
which the industrialized countries are experiencing, together with their 
profound social crisis. We might be talking about a post-capitalist era in 
which the quest for supposedly free competition has turned into a total 
dehumanization of the economic model, producing a yawning gap between rich and 
poor in world society. 
We are facing not the end of history, but rather a great lack of 
leadership, of confidence and of enthusiasm for the future. The 
industrialized countries, bogged down in their economic rivalries, cannot 
coordinate their actions in favour of peace, stability and justice. Deprived 
of the enemy which used to make them act together, they are now experiencing a 
substantial weakening of the bonds which used to unite them. 
The times in which we live require strong, democratic international 
organizations if the preventive diplomacy the Secretary-General has described 
in his "Agenda for Peace" which we are studying very carefully is to take 
root. We support the more active role he envisages for the Organization, in 
the area not of intervention, but rather of prevention. To achieve this, the 
United Nations and the specialized agencies must cooperate 
"to address the deepest causes of conflict: economic despair, social 
injustice and political oppression." (A/47/277, para. 15) 
The Security Council, which should have been the most efficient United 
Nations body, is an anachronism. It still reflects the interrelationship of 
forces that existed when it was created. When the United Nations came into 

being, its keystone was the Council, controlled by its five permanent members, 
which was given predominance to try to eliminate the limitations which had 
made the former League of Nations ineffectual. The founders of the 
Organization thought that this time the big Powers would be able to exercise 
effective leadership, in keeping with their power; that is, they would have 
the ability to act as world monitors and arbitrators and bring order to the 
world. 
To the frustration of humanity, the two super-Powers proved that they 
alone were enough to lay the foundations of international order. The Security 
Council, from the day the Organization was established until the end of the 
cold war, was to play second fiddle in the management of world affairs. 

After the collapse of the Soviet system, the Security Council began to 
regain its original functions. But it is doing so under the aegis of the 
triumphant values. Thus the major countries can outline an international 
scenario in accordance with their interests. This situation should be 
reconsidered so that, as the Secretary-General has said: 
"Democracy within the family of nations means the application of its 
principles within the world Organization itself." (A/47/277, para. 82) 
Before the General Assembly, the President of Venezuela, 
Carlos Andres Perez, clearly conveyed his concern over the need to make the 
Security Council more representative. He said: 
"Our own people's aspiration to democracy can also become a 
permanent aspiration of the United Nations. The Organization will not be 
strengthened unless an agreement is reached to eliminate the right of 
veto exercised by the permanent members of the Security Council, a right 
that responded to circumstances and realities that have ceased to exist. 
This mechanism runs counter to the spirit of the Charter of the United 
Nations and limits its effective contributions to collective security. 
"The right to veto Security Council resolutions is a mechanism that 
limits the achievement of consensus among the Member States of the United 
Nations. The Security Council must be a representative body, and in no 
way should any of its members negate the majority view of the United 
Nations. If we want collective and democratic security, we must aspire 
to universal egalitarian law." (A/46/PV.8. p. 13) 
In our changing times, concepts of State sovereignty and integrity are 
also being re-examined. Paradoxically, the "champions of freedom", once 
victorious, are trying to impose a homogeneous and intolerant world order in 
which an independent protagonist would be seen as a destabilizing and 

threatening factor. This is a matter of serious concern to the States of the 
southern hemisphere. In the past, we were important to the North in two 
ways: as the natural scenario for the East-West confrontation and as 
essential suppliers of raw materials. 
The confrontation between East and West is gone and with it the political 
and strategic usefulness of the third world. Raw materials have become 
marginal in the present world economy. The slump in the demand for 
commodities becomes more acute with every passing year. The phrase 
"mobilizing effect" used to mean that any surge in the rich economies would 
carry the developing economies along with it. When the North was growing, so 
were exports of raw materials. The situation has completely changed 
traditional export commodities no longer have the same value. International 
markets can almost do without us. 
The only way to preserve peace is to find balanced links between the 
hemispheres, put an end to relations of confrontation and strengthen 
cooperation between peoples. I have not come here to point out the mistakes 
made by the North. The countries in the South also bear heavy 
responsibilities. We must meet our challenge. The era of demagogic populism, 
inefficiency and corruption is over. If we wish to compete in a world of open 
markets we must devote ourselves to productive work and reward creativity. 
Venezuela has realized this and is in a position from which it can look to the 
future with optimism, provided there is compliance with the rules of open 
markets and competitiveness between nations. 
However, we must emphasize that while large regions in the South, 
especially in Latin America, are striving to internationalize their economies 
by opening them up to competition, the North is increasingly locking itself 
into inward-turning blocs. Ultimately, the free market one of the triumphant 

values to which I have already referred would seem to work in a single 
direction. 
If the rigid attitude of some international financial institutions 
persists, together with the dangerous protectionism that is again emerging 
among the industrialized countries, then the 1990s, which in Latin America 
began with severe economic measures and hopeful signs of growth, may also turn 
out to be another lost decade. 
The North is not making a contribution to the establishment of the 
necessary economic links between the two hemispheres. The new world order 
implies a dual concept: on the one hand, the failure of the South and, on the 
other, the defeat of the communist East. The power logic being applied is 
simple and direct. There is no longer any question of the loss of any given 
strategic resource or strategic position falling into the hands of communism. 
There being no enemies, there is no longer any danger of losing friends; worse 
yet, there is no longer any need for friends. What is important now is that 
there be no disorder and no anarchy. What matters now is the willingness of 
the South to submit to certain global rules of the game as defined by the 
North in terms of its own interests. 
Yet they fail to understand that these rules of the game become 
inoperative in situations ->f anarchy and civil strife, which can dismember a 
State and have spill-over effects on those surrounding it. Somalia is a 
tragic example of what the southern hemisphere could become, on a larger 
scale, in the twenty-first century. Some wealthy States may feel that they 
can live unaffected by such realities. They are mistaken. We must not forget 
that the South has its own ability to make an instinctive response: the 
migratory flows of its impoverished masses to the North. This flow, which is 

always difficult for any Government to control, could come to undermine the 
bases for the democratic and social stability in many developed countries. 
The best proof of this is the resurgence of extreme rightist movements and the 
outbreak of racial violence and xenophobia in many countries. 
These problems and the persistent imbalance between the North and the 
South highlight a series of essential issues that the Assembly should 
consider. The first is the democratization of the decision-making processes 
in the Security Council. This implies a new debate on the veto procedure and 
an increase in the number of permanent members so as to allow for the 
representation of the new world realities. 

The new circumstances in the world have been conducive to solving various 
regional problems, such as those in Angola, Namibia, Central America, 
Mozambique and Cambodia; to a large extent, in other areas, such as 
Afghanistan, Western Sahara, South Africa and the Middle East, there are 
signs, because of the new circumstances, that warrant hope for negotiated 
solutions to conflicts. Venezuela supports measures designed to achieve 
peaceful solutions to these problems and hopes that the favourable 
international climate will help maintain peace. 
We also supported the Rio summit on the environment and hope that the 
decisions adopted there, particularly those related to the problem of 
financing Agenda 21, will be implemented as soon as circumstances permit. ' 
Similarly, we give our full support to the Second World Conference on Human 
Rights, to be held next year, as well as to the forthcoming conferences on 
population and on the status of women and to the summit on social development. 
Despite the endeavours of the United Nations, the outlook is not 
encouraging. None the less, when all the countries gathered here in the 
Assembly commit themselves to working for change, for a world where hunger and 
war have vanished, where the environment is protected, and where realistic 
measures are adopted to prevent conflicts, then we shall be building the just 
society of which we have always dreamed. 


===== Session 48 - 1993 =====
Allow me, on behalf of Venezuela, to extend
to you, Sir, our very special congratulations on your election
as President of the General Assembly at its forty-eighth
session. It is of great significance to us that the Permanent
Representative of Guyana - a country with which we
maintain special relations of friendship and cooperation -
should be directing the work of this important Assembly.
The President of Venezuela, Mr. Ramon J. Velásquez, would
have liked to be present on this important occasion.
However, the current situation in the country necessitates his
remaining in Caracas.
In recent months Venezuela has had to assume
exceptional responsibilities. Yesterday marked the end of
our term as president of the Security Council. During that
term, events of vital importance have taken place in the
world. In particular, during the past 12 months we have
witnessed with horror the re-emergence of hatreds, barbarism
and episodes of ethnic cleansing that we thought had been
consigned for ever to the saddest and blackest pages of
history. In the conflict that is tearing apart the former
Republic of Yugoslavia, Venezuela has played an important
role - a role widely recognized by the other members of the
Council - in the protection of human rights. Acting within
the framework of the international bodies, we have sought,
above all, to restore peace to that tormented region.
The United Nations has accumulated a wealth of
experience in the deployment of operations for the
maintenance of order - even in some situations in which
peace had not yet been attained. With the new situation in
the world, an organization that was established for purposes
of dialogue and negotiation is faced with challenges of a
different kind. From the maintenance of order in a
traditional sense, it has moved on to operations that include
military aspects, humanitarian, institutional and electoral
assistance, the monitoring of human-rights issues and even
development aid. In recent months the United Nations has
played an active and varied role against an ever-changing
international background.
This year, too, the world has seen the emergence of new
hopes. In one of the most strife-torn regions of the planet,
where there appeared to be no prospect of understanding or
future coexistence, two old enemies, the State of Israel and
the Palestine Liberation Organization, have taken significant
steps towards a joint search for peace and the harmonious
development of the two peoples. Venezuela welcomes the
Washington agreement between Israel and the PLO, and will
work within the framework of the United Nations to achieve
a body of measures and resolutions that will help to erase
the hatreds of a past that is still too close. Similarly, we
support the peace initiatives and the process of
demilitarization and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons
that have always been an essential part of the work of this
Assembly.
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 9
During our months on the Security Council, we have
experienced, at first hand, the accelerated pace of world
events today. We are concerned at the uncertainty of the
roads to be taken and the instability that prevails in many
corners of the world. There are no longer any ideologies,
established values or clear directions. Nevertheless, amidst
all the confusion a few issues have emerged which could
become the single prevalent ideology of mankind. These are
human rights, the defence of democracy and the protection
of the environment.
Last June, in Vienna, the United Nations sponsored that
remarkable encounter, the World Conference on Human
Rights. We engaged there in a fruitful dialogue between
Governments and non-governmental organizations, with the
aim of working together to wipe out the injustices that still
exist in our countries. In Vienna, we came to realize that
the protection of human rights has become a topic of interest
to people of different races from all parts of the world. The
Conference confirmed the universal value of those rights and
reaffirmed that democracy, human rights and development
are equally important and mutually reinforcing objectives.
The further improvement of democracy might begin in
this Organization, where the reform of the Security Council
continues to be necessary in order to make its decisions
more representative. The General Assembly must attach the
proper importance to the discussion of this issue. Venezuela
shares the general concern with making the United Nations
a more transparent and democratic Organization. The new
international scenario calls for a more representative Security
Council without exclusive rights that discriminate against
some Member States.
In the context of the defence of democracy, the United
Nations and regional organizations have made outstanding
efforts, especially in Haiti, where it is our hope that the
lawfully constituted Government will be restored, and in
Guatemala, where forces attempting a coup d’état were
defeated by the weight of civil society. Today, democratic
regimes prevail in almost all of Latin America. However,
our democracies are still young and have experienced
difficulties in recent months.
In Venezuela, we have overcome a severe political
crisis which undoubtedly had the result of strengthening our
institutions. Following a process which took place entirely
within the framework of the law, Mr. Ramón J. Velásquez
succeeded to the highest office. He is a distinguished
historian, respected by all political forces in the country for
the honesty he has shown in his career and for his profound
knowledge of the Venezuelan mentality.
Democracy is a system of values within which respect
for institutions is not only a duty but a necessity. There
have always been attempts in Latin America to justify the
use of force. Order, the fight against terrorism or
communism, the inefficiency of the State: these reasons
have often been used to justify regimes that, finally, did not
re-establish order but abolished freedom. In the past, this
has happened in Venezuela. Today, we have the serenity of
waiting for our institutions to function, and we can now say
with pride that democracy persists in Venezuela and that we
have been able to overcome a serious political crisis.
Nevertheless, our future is clouded by economic
difficulties. The defence and maintenance of democracy
requires the full cooperation of the industrialized countries
in the search for a form of economic development that will
afford our impoverished peoples a life of dignity. Hence,
we support the proposal by the President of the General
Assembly, Mr. Samuel Insanally, for a summit to discuss the
world’s economic problems and agree on programmes of
action to solve them. We agree that the "Agenda for Peace"
put forward by the Secretary-General,
Mr. Boutros Boutros-Ghali, should be complemented by an
agenda for development which would place socio-economic
problems on the same level as those of a purely political
nature. The establishment and preservation of democracy
involves reaching a balanced and equitable global growth
rate.
Balanced growth was the central topic of the first
session of the Commission on Sustainable Development in
New York. The establishment of that Commission is one of
the most significant outcomes of the Earth Summit in Rio de
Janeiro. There is an intimate link between the issue of
development, the financial resources required in order to
attain it and the strict protection of the environment. Despite
the lack of encouraging results, we still believe firmly in the
Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and we
wish to draw particular attention to Principles 3 and 4, which
read as follows:
Principle 3:
"The right to development must be fulfilled so as to
equitably meet developmental and environmental needs
of present and future generations."
Principle 4:
"In order to achieve sustainable development,
environmental protection shall constitute an
10 General Assembly - Forty-eighth session
integral part of the development process and
cannot be considered in isolation from it."
Accordingly, we are greatly concerned at what is
happening on Venezuela’s Amazonian border. My country
has attached very special importance to the preservation of
nature. Fully 17 per cent of our territory consists of
specially protected national parks in which economic
activities are closely monitored and restricted. On the
southern border, in particular, we have had the support of
scientific organizations and universities in the establishment
of the Alto Orinoco-Casiquiare Biosphere Reserve, covering
an area of 60,000 square kilometres. In this zone, by law,
economic activities must be compatible with the fragility of
the tropical forest ecosystem. Particular importance is
attached to the cultural and linguistic heritage of the
indigenous peoples, whose way of life has always been
compatible with preservation of the environment.
Over the past five years, unfortunately, we have
undergone a true invasion whose results are disastrous for
the environment and which has introduced a climate of
violence hitherto unknown in the area.
The cause is illegal mining, which, while taking
advantage of the forested and inaccessible nature of
Amazonia, is destroying rivers and whole hectares of
vegetation. This phenomenon has reached a scale large
enough to cause concern, to the point that it is escaping
control by the States. Just recently - last July - illegal
miners massacred a group of Venezuelans, of the Yanomami
tribe. Brazil and Venezuela, where the criminal act was
carried out, have established an ad hoc commission to
investigate the facts and to make sure that the criminals are
punished. But the fact that these events can occur gives a
clear idea of the seriousness of the situation we are facing in
Amazonia. Trees are being cut down, the sources of our
great rivers are being deforested, the waters of the great
tropical forest are being polluted with mercury and the
indigenous population, the original inhabitants of the region,
are being murdered.
The Amazonian border of Venezuela, 2,200 kilometres
long, has been preserved. On our side there is the biosphere
reserve, and in Brazil there is the Yanomami park,
established in 1992 and covering 94,000 square kilometres.
Nevertheless, the deaths of the indigenous Venezuelans show
that violence and destruction are beginning to penetrate these
protected areas. Illegal mining is a business behind which
are the gold and diamond transnationals that arm them,
provide them with machinery and build landing strips in the
forest. They are deforesting Amazonia. Each year an area
of forest the size of Portugal is destroyed. They are wiping
out plants and animals: it is estimated that
1,200,000 species will disappear in the next 25 years. They
are annihilating the local population, and this in 1993, when
the whole world is commemorating the International Year
for the World’s Indigenous People.
Therefore, Venezuela addresses the international
community to denounce this serious environmental situation.
All the countries of the Amazon Basin have clearly
proclaimed our sovereignty over the land in question.
Amazonia belongs to us, but we have the responsibility to
protect it, now and for future generations. We must work
together to preserve our tropical forest. Each country in the
region is making special efforts to take up the challenge of
sustainable development in this zone where the ecological
balance is so precarious. We particularly welcome the
establishment in Brazil of the Ministry of the Environment
and the Conservation of Amazonia, which will undoubtedly
be an important factor in solving the problem. Only open
and sincere dialogue between the countries of the region will
enable us to resist the gold and diamond multinationals that
are destroying, without regard for morality, this important
part of the heritage of mankind.
We must live up to the environmental commitments
entered into at the Rio Summit. We need technical support
and political, economic and social backing to confront the
economic interests that are destroying our heritage. I appeal
to the mining transnationals to understand that development
does not mean destruction; to international agencies to help
us implement the principles of sustainable development in
this zone; and to the wealthiest countries to understand that,
while poverty and ignorance persist among large segments
of the population in Latin America, violence and
environmental destruction will continue.
The United Nations has performed a monumental task
in convening the Earth Summit and the Conference on
Human Rights, and now the major meetings on population
and social development. The resolutions adopted at these
conferences are now being violated in Amazonia. Venezuela
is making a great effort to ensure the preservation of the
environment, often in areas to which access is extremely
difficult. We are fighting for human rights among people
who are not accustomed to respecting the law. We are
trying to proceed in accordance with the principles of
sustainable development, standing up to the companies that
are seeking only to extract the wealth of the soil at a rapid
pace. These are difficult tasks, but we are convinced that
this effort is necessary in order to conserve our Amazonia
and preserve it for future generations of our peoples and also
Forty-eighth session - 1 October l993 11
for future generations of all mankind. The United Nations
is the appropriate forum for the whole world to learn of our
efforts to preserve this territory, its biodiversity and the
integrity of its rightful inhabitants.


===== Session 49 - 1994 =====
On behalf of the Government and people of Venezuela,
I wish to congratulate you, Sir, Minister of Foreign
Affairs of Côte d’Ivoire, on your election as President of
the General Assembly at its forty-ninth session. I am
confident that under your guidance the Assembly will at
this important session contribute to progress in the
carrying out of the important task with which the
Organization is charged - the constant quest for peace.
I also take pleasure in paying tribute to Mr. Boutros
Boutros-Ghali, the Secretary-General, whose intelligent
and expert leadership have given the world fresh hope, as
we are about to enter a new millennium, so that we may
be optimistic about the future, even though there are still
grounds for concern.
The twentieth century, which is drawing to a close,
has witnessed momentous events for mankind. Two
world wars, which cost an enormous number of human
lives and immense physical, economic and cultural losses,
demonstrated the extent to which man is capable of
destruction - above all, self-destruction. The world’s
political map has been changed many times, with
predictable consequences.
Science and technology have made remarkable
progress. The discovery of antibiotics has provided
undreamt-of opportunities for surgery. Surgeons have
6


converted the human body into a fruitful field for
operations capable of correcting natural defects and injuries
arising from circumstances prevailing in an increasingly
complex society. Life expectancy has risen steadily, and
terrible endemic diseases that used to claim countless
victims have vanished almost completely.
Communications have been the greatest marvel of this
century. The twentieth century has been the era of radio
broadcasting and television. Important events occurring in
any part of the world are immediately known in the most
distant regions. The fax has supplanted the mails and
improved on the telegram and the telex. Communications
are the principal reason why the inhabitants of this planet
are gradually recognizing their role as members of a single,
vast community of nations.
Of necessity, institutions have endeavoured to keep in
step with the rapid and unremitting march of events. Both
internal and international juridical norms are subject to
constant change. Fundamental concepts of nationality and
sovereignty are being reconsidered, and formulas are being
sought so that inalienable and traditional rights may exist in
harmony with the requirements of the supranational
community. Amongst these values are the self-
determination of nations and non-intervention, as laid down
in the Preamble to our Constitution. Accordingly,
Venezuela has been and remains permanently disposed to
promoting the peaceful spread of democracy to every nation
on Earth, and especially to those of our continent. We
have consequently supported efforts aimed at reintroducing
a fully democratic system in those Latin American
countries where it is not at present established. Their
situation is inevitably of deep concern to us by reason of
history and natural affinities. For the same reason, though,
Venezuela did not support military intervention in Haiti,
despite the fact that the United Nations has lent it
multilateral and institutional support.
At the same time, regional integration is expanding,
with profound effect on the exercise of rights within every
country. This process is rapidly leading to hemispheric and
universal integration. For Latin Americans, the bicentennial
of the birth of Antonio José de Sucre, the young man who
consolidated our independence at the battle of Ayacucho,
will provide an opportunity to reassert the unbreakable links
of our solidarity. As we see it, the objective of the
forthcoming meeting of Heads of State or Government,
convened by the President of the United States, will be the
encouragement of a genuinely democratic system in the
American continent and throughout the world. It is our
hope in this regard that there will be a commitment to fight
without quarter against poverty and an effective
agreement to stamp out corruption.
The United Nations has managed to avoid most of
the obstacles that caused the failure of its immediate
predecessor, the League of Nations. Next year it will
celebrate its first 50 years of existence: a time in which,
amidst contradictions and disappointments, it has provided
a unique forum for constant dialogue, in every language
and in the most contrasting tones. It has made
uninterrupted progress and shown a willingness to accept
the structural changes that changing times have imposed.
For this reason we are awaiting further changes, such as
the expansion of permanent representation on the Security
Council to Latin America by granting Brazil permanent
membership. Latin America has every right to this by
virtue of its spiritual strength and its constant espousal of
liberty and international friendship.
However, despite all the progress achieved, it is
undeniable that we are still a very long way from having
established a stable, universal peace or a harmonious
coexistence amongst nations. Nor have we developed
standards of living that permit all social strata in the
various continents to enjoy a fitting human existence, with
a satisfactory world-wide level of equity in social
relations.
The struggle for human rights has spread
significantly, and international treaties have been signed
to ensure that protection of such rights transcends all
borders. But the basic human right to life itself, the right
to work and the right to have enough to eat for healthy
living are far from having been secured for a considerable
part of mankind.
The momentous International Conference on
Population and Development, recently held in Cairo,
seemed to be based on the assumption that it is
impossible to guarantee development interpreted as
participation by the whole human being and by all human
beings in economic and social processes - if the
population continues to increase. This is because many
countries have not ensured, as is essential, that everyone
who is born will have the means to enjoy a decent
existence. In my country, at the beginning of the century,
a time of manifest poverty and backwardness, there was
a saying that every child was born with an arepa under
the arm. "Arepa" is a bread made of maize and is a
popular staple of the daily diet. This saying has now
dropped out of popular usage.
7


In spite of the dramatic repercussions of the events
following the destruction of the Berlin Wall, peace has not
yet been achieved. Just as we were ready to thrill with
emotion at the arrival of universal peace, the Gulf War
awakened us from that dream. Recent conflicts in the
former Yugoslavia and in Rwanda, two countries so
fundamentally different one from the other, have stirred up
vestiges of barbarism that had supposedly disappeared for
ever. Religious conflicts and ethnic antagonisms, thought
to have been overcome once and for all, have re-emerged
with unbelievable bitterness. Events recall the Biblical
commentary of the Peruvian Victor Andrés Belaunde, an
illustrious Latin American, greatly appreciated in the United
Nations, who said that human beings bear the weight of a
curse implicitly imposed by God when He cast them out of
the Garden of Eden: Since they refused to be governed by
God, they would have to govern themselves.
The United Nations faces a constant challenge: the
quest for peace. It is clear that peace will not be achieved
simply through political discussion or diplomatic
negotiation, still less through the mere use of force. It has
often been said by knowledgeable speakers that peace is the
fruit of justice: that is, without some degree of justice,
peace is unattainable.
That was understood by the negotiators at Versailles
at the end of the First World War when they included in
their Peace Treaty a lengthy clause devoted to the
International Labour Organization and inspired by the
notion of social justice. Undoubtedly, however, the need
for justice goes far beyond international conventions and
recommendations with regard to labour, and meeting that
need is becoming a matter of increasing urgency.
The rapid process of globalization we are witnessing
is unstoppable and unavoidable. The steps being taken in
this direction are dictated by the state of today’s world and
the demands of the immediate and mid-term future. The
conclusion of the Uruguay Round and the creation of the
World Trade Organization represent undeniable progress for
mankind. The bilateral and multilateral agreements reached
on all continents are signs of progress and stimulate the
creation and exchange of wealth. It is nevertheless
essential to introduce into relations between States
instruments that will prevent commercial interchange from
becoming an economic war to the death. It is inappropriate
to transfer to social relations the concept of the struggle for
existence in the sense that nature itself, through this
struggle, will automatically ensure the survival of the fittest -
in other words, the absolute predominance of the strongest
and the disappearance of the weakest. The acceptance of
such an idea would be a crime against humanity.
It must be recognized that the United Nations and its
important subsidiary bodies have made great efforts to
alleviate the sufferings and shortages of those sectors of
humanity where the standard of living is below what is
deemed humanely indispensable. It is encouraging to
note that institutions directly related to the United Nations
such as the World Bank and the International Monetary
Fund recognize that the fight against poverty must be a
top priority. It is not, however, enough to give
humanitarian assistance to the neediest. It is essential to
afford nations the conditions they require to enable all
their inhabitants to compete efficiently, to ensure their
healthy survival and to encourage their progress.
It is true that economic-liberalization measures in
less-developed countries have produced positive
macroeconomic results, but in some countries that point
with satisfaction to the tremendous economic progress
they have achieved one can note, at the same time, a
growing concern about that portion of the population that
is living in poverty and, even more distressing, in critical
and even extreme poverty.
I share the aspiration voiced by the President of
Colombia to a new model of development for our
countries, for an "alternative model," as he put it when
addressing the Assembly. He proposed the establishment
of
"a new and more productive citizen in the economy,
a citizen who participates to a greater degree in
politics and who is more supportive in the social
sphere." (Official Records of the General Assembly,
Forty-ninth Session, Plenary Meetings, 5th meeting,
[p. 27])
In recent years my country, Venezuela, has faced a
difficult economic situation and disquieting social
circumstances. Undeniably, the blame lies largely with us.
Grievous mistakes in running the country and the
poisonous plague of corruption are the principal causes of
the acute crisis we are experiencing, but external factors
have also played a part. I am not here to pronounce
judgement on the past. As I have pledged to my
compatriots, I must find ways of restoring the confidence
that is indispensable if coming generations are to be able,
with training and hard work, to avail themselves of the
opportunities the country has to offer. Serious
institutional problems - such as the legal proceedings
8


against two former Presidents of the Republic, one of
whom was suspended from office while still President -
have been handled within the legal system with strict
adherence to the Constitution. The people’s conduct has
been truly exemplary. The natural resources with which
providence has endowed us and the favourable prospects
guaranteed by our human resource, our people, who have
always demonstrated intelligence, creative audacity and
courage in times of danger, inspire us with optimism. We
realize that we must seek within ourselves the essential
elements that will enable us to win the struggle for
development to which we are so seriously committed. We
have put forward an economic stabilization and recovery
programme that has been in large part accepted. It lays out
a feasible and clearly defined course that will ultimately
lead to a solution of the crisis. However, we feel that we
are in duty bound to explain to international forums, and
most particularly to this world forum, the need for
favourable prospects to open up that can help us to avoid
exerting our efforts in vain and ensure instead that they will
be successful and will contribute to a better future for
mankind.
For example, when considering the need to strengthen
trade relations throughout the world we must call for
guaranteed access to the markets of the developed
countries, where mechanisms are sometimes in place that
are skillfully used to exclude our competition. We agree
with the need for environmental protection for the benefit
of the world’s inhabitants, and we are certainly ready to
contribute to that goal. However, we must make the point
that on more than one occasion the ecological struggle for
a healthy environment has been hypocritically used as a
way to prevent developing countries from gaining access to
the markets of wealthy nations. We further believe that
transfer of technology must be wide ranging and genuine,
for if it is not the gap between us and the developed
countries, which increases every year, will ultimately
become impossible to bridge and will lead to a sharp and
bitter rift between two sectors of mankind, with
unforeseeable but undoubtedly disastrous consequences.
Access to capital is a requirement that is becoming
ever more acute as technological advances make productive
processes more capital- and less labour-intensive. At the
same time, there must be fair payment for the raw materials
that represent the principal contribution of the
underdeveloped countries to international trade but that are
constantly losing their relevance in end products.
Consequently, access to capital must be arranged on
equitable terms to protect the interests of producers, who
are often obliged to accept conditions that are little more
than adhesion contracts. This struggle to obtain better
prices for raw materials, which are almost invariably
subject to conditions imposed by consumer countries
without any real participation by the producers, and the
establishment of reasonable terms for international loans
are part of the struggle for justice and an integral part of
the struggle for peace.
The external-debt problem of the developing
countries is still far from being solved. It is true that
there have been negotiations on restructuring and that
they have temporarily alleviated the dreadful burden that
problem represents for the debtor countries, but as the
repayment deadlines fall due the burden for those in debt
becomes harder to bear with the passing of every year.
To cite a concrete example: in my country next year’s
debt servicing payments will amount to 35 per cent of the
national budget, and in coming years the situation will
become even more acute. The drop in the price of our
main export has made it very difficult to meet the basic
needs of our population. We have never given any
thought to disavowing our obligations. We are resolved
to meet them, but we consider that this subject must be
placed on international agendas and that a search must
begin for a broad solution that will open up new horizons
of justice and peace.
I believe that as we approach the beginning of the
second half of the United Nations first century the
fundamental aim of the United Nations must be the search
for justice in relations among peoples.
Social justice has been one of the most important
achievements of this twentieth century that is now
drawing to a close. This demands of every individual and
every group whatever is required for the common good.
Above and beyond the numerical equality of commutative
justice, it also requires of all of us that we make a
contribution to the community of nations in proportion to
our individual possibilities. This concept has still not
gained acceptance in the international field. It is true that
there have been some minor concessions to the most
needy countries but there is a lack of any clear course
towards the achievement of universal well-being. It is not
only States that should be the agents. Once the door was
opened by the International Labour Organization (ILO),
international organizations also provided access for
unofficial bodies. The large transnational corporations
which have and exercise real power must become
involved in the management of programmes that will seek
peace through justice; economic justice in so far as it
9


concerns them; and respect for the sovereignty of both
large and small States.
Those of us who love freedom; those of us who have
struggled to achieve it, regardless of cost and sacrifice;
those of us who consider democracy and respect for human
rights as priority objectives; those of us who sincerely
yearn for friendship and fruitful understanding among all
nations; those of us who believe in dialogue and resolutely
support the endeavours of the United Nations to encourage
it - all of us desire to see the United Nations displaying
unflinching determination that the search for justice - and
I shall never tire of repeating this - must play a key role in
the building of peace.
If peace is our goal let us strive to make justice its
foundation. In this way we shall realize the ideal which
our Liberator, Simon Bolivar, visualized as the most
important goal of the best system of government: "the
greatest possible degree of happiness", in other words,
happiness for all.


===== Session 50 - 1995 =====
Everything that could be said has been said
during this annual routine, in which each Head of State or
Government, or Minister, stands before the United Nations
General Assembly. If all the speeches were to be published
in a compendium, the same universal themes would be
repeated a thousand times.
The compendium would include the great, insoluble
problems that, to various degrees, afflict the peoples of
every continent, as well as the solutions that have already
been found, and the promised solutions implicit in the
constant efforts of this Organization, which, like any other
human endeavour, has lived through 50 years of triumphs
and frustration.
We must rejoice that, thanks to the Organization’s
vigilance and action, we have enjoyed — as never
before — half a century of peace, although we lament the
fact that we must now deploy efforts against violence born
of intolerance, fanaticism and ethnic or religious strife that
frustrate the achievement of the harmony for which
mankind yearns.
Alongside the impressive achievements of the world
community, these 50 years have also seen numerous local
conflicts that have taken 23 million lives. Eighty seven per
cent of the weapons sold and used in the world come from
the five countries that are permanent members of the
Security Council. And, unbelievable as it might seem, at
this stage of our political evolution, two atomic Powers
are causing anxiety with inexplicable nuclear tests for
which we criticized other Powers.
But who can deny that in the fields of health,
technology, environment, human rights, communications,
the exploitation of the resources of the seas and many
other fields, there is progress and hope, and at least a
warning that awakens the universal conscience?
Today’s statement by the Foreign Minister of
Venezuela will be no different. Political scenarios change,
as do ideologies, the most extraordinary crisis in history
erupts, but life’s dramas continue, with man bruised by
change, but for the first time wavering between hope and
bewilderment. This situation results from the fact that we
have rushed from one era to another without the
demolition caused by war, although we have had the
enthusiastic and confident contribution of students and
workers, who have devoted their free time to making it.
We note hardly any curiosity about the era we are
approaching, an era as yet unnamed, though soon to be
upon us it could be called anything: “post-capitalist”,
“post-socialist” or “post-industrial”; or it could simply be
described as a time of transition between two periods that
our generations share.
There has been talk, of course, of the end of history,
with the end of ideological confrontation; that is precisely
what makes history: incessant conflicts and passionate
confrontations, fears and hopes, freedom and deprivation
of freedom, in any of the forms of oppression that have
always been applied.
Man today has the vague feeling that he is in contact
with all other men through the miracle of the media, fibre
optics, and cybernetic systems, and yet, now that there are
more human beings with whom solidarity may be felt,
solidarity is more precarious and man’s loneliness is more
poignant.
To create a different world based on a solid,
complex and long-lasting Organization that has been
taking shape since the end of the First World War, we
have begun to talk — since we want words to describe
what is going on — of globalization, of integration, of the
abolition of the nation-State and its replacement by large
blocs, in order to produce through strength of numbers
and unity a new dynamic different from military might.
8


Let us suppose, then, that the world of the future will
have to be shaped according to regions, or large integrated
groups or communities, regional or otherwise, that have a
common cultural origin and wish to be identified with the
others, because of the particular characteristics of their
culture, such as tradition, language, religion and even mixed
blood.
This is what strikes me, as I now appear for the first
time before so distinguished a forum to speak on behalf of
a country such as mine — a country with a modest
economy, a small population, a territory that is
medium-sized but which, owing to its excellent
geographical situation, developed more than others; a
culture of social freedom, of mixed races and of political
independence, achieved by means of an epic struggle, not
only for itself but for all of its American neighbours. Mine
is a country that has never been at war with anyone, a
country whose desire to see its neighbours freed from
colonialism gave impetus to, and is inspiring, the brand-new
Caribbean community, for instance. It is a country that, as
we have proved time and again, will support and promote
any initiative aimed at pacification in the region, as we did
today in the Group of Friends of Guatemala, for example,
and when we welcomed the latest agreement between Israel
and the Palestinians.
Venezuela, like other countries, has been shaken — in
our case since 1989 — by a severe crisis. Not so much
economic or political as ethical in nature, this crisis has
weakened our institutions and undermined our financial
system, the collapse of which cost us 16 per cent of our
gross national product and has attracted the
not-always-understanding attention of international opinion.
This is the crisis that our Government inherited.
Aware that its characteristics are atypical in our region,
since its basic goal is to replace a paternalistic, oil-
dependent model by an open culture based on work and
self-reliance rather than on seeking the understanding of
other countries, our Government is proceeding to solve our
nation’s problems, which, fortunately, are no match for our
diverse and solid economic resources.
Venezuela is a country that has simultaneously — as
if by magic — produced great thinkers, the most credible
Utopians, the luckiest generals, the most visionary
educators. My country, situated at the northern gate of
South America, freed itself and other countries by following
the dreams of Francisco de Miranda, brought to fruition by
Simón Bolivár and Antonio José de Sucre, by systematic
thinking and by the actions of Andrés Bello and Simón
Rodríguez, among other well-known figures.
Simón Bolívar was clear-sighted. In that nebulous
period of history that was the year 1815, he set out, from
Jamaica — in the most famous political document of this
part of the world — a dazzling prophecy of what the
ideal destiny of Hispanic America was to be. To this day,
no one can understand how he thought it up. He wrote:
“It is a grandiose idea to try to make of the entire
new world a single nation, with only one link to
bind and tie together all the parts to the whole.”
Once independence was achieved, he foresaw that an
imperfect and erratic unity, such as that of the South,
could be thrown off balance by the organization of the
former 13 American colonies, whose integration he
already anticipated. He also foresaw the power of the
hard-working, driven race that would consolidate on the
American continent the formidable and admirable nation
that the United States has become, with its transcendent
and unique feeling of liberty, since its founders left
behind all prejudices and fears.
Bolívar visualized uniting the American half that
was discovered, populated and moulded in all its aspects
by Spain and Portugal, seeing it as one that must
necessarily have its own way of life and of behaving. His
vision was never based on rivalry, but rather, in keeping
with his views on the destiny of this shared hemisphere,
on the basis of emulation and friendship instead of strife
as its driving force.
The colonizing Powers contributed, and based this
half of America on, all they had brought with them. They
established a religion, a society reminiscent of the
offspring of settlers, whose physical surroundings and
indiscriminate crossbreeding gave rise to a feeling of
unfettered freedom and equality. This, in turn, engendered
irrevocably an equally free spirit of social democracy,
which Latin America has never since lacked, not even
during the long periods when political democracy was
non-existent.
In 1826, Bolívar, the Liberator, convened the
Congress of Panama to speak there, for the first time in
history, not of sacred or profane alliances of war, but of
alliances for peace. The thoughts he presented gave rise
to the idea of an organized international community, first
of all for the Americas, through the Pan-American Union,
which in turn gave rise to the present Organization of
9


American States (OAS), then to the League of Nations and
finally to this Organization, which has given humanity,
together with peace, all the possibilities that peace offers.
This is an exceptional community, the largest in the
world, since it extends from the southern border of the
United States all the way south to Patagonia, uniting the
greatest number of peoples and republics with similar
characteristics. Here, the various languages spoken in Spain
fortunately became one, revitalizing the Castilian tongue,
and similarly, the Portuguese language, which in Brazil is
a language as open and soft as America itself. In the
northernmost point of America, the imprint of France in
Canada, as well as the Hispanic minority in the United
States, are living reminders of this community.
In geographical terms, we are larger than other official
communities, since the United States’ surface area covers
9,372,000 square kilometres and Europe’s covers
10,404,000 square kilometres. But we cover 20,000,000
square kilometres, and in these, the future of humanity is
pulsing.
In political and spiritual terms, we are history’s largest
laboratory, at once a mystery and a promise — an absolute
wonder that the future is revealing day by day. The seed of
a new world, different from our expectations, is growing
among us.
We are not the only five hundred million human
beings to be allergic to the discrimination that will confront
us in the year 2000. But we are the only human group to
have been born and moulded without privileges, hesitations
or complexes, on an equal footing. Though this sense of
equality was repressed for three centuries by pragmatic
measures that were respected but not implemented, and by
the extreme zeal of monks who consulted no one in
imposing a single faith on this immense geographical area,
it was imbued with the spaciousness of the land, the rivers,
the forests, the gentle climate, the mountains and prairies,
whose influence produced a different type of human
character. And I would repeat that this deep feeling and
sense of fundamental freedom was something that had
never happened to any other group of people.
Germán Arciniegas rightly said that
“America was colonized by a man who was destined
to a life of servitude in Europe. He became
emancipated when he crossed from one shore to the
other ... These wretches worked the continent with
their bare hands, they were the poor, the landless, the
illiterate of the popular Renaissance. Uneducated,
unenlightened, their common destiny was to join
together to become nations and so achieve justice.”
And justice was the most absolute independence,
influenced by American determinism.
In his sociologist’s discourse, Bolívar said that we
Americans represent a small human race. We have now
become an important branch of the broader human race:
the branch of possibilities and hope.
Our region would not enter into conflict with any
other; not even with the one with which it shares the
hemisphere, and which speaks a different language and
has different customs. It will not be another international
agency, or form another bureaucracy, or take up more
room than the enormous space of its present physical and
human geography.
In other words, we aspire to a beautiful Utopia, with
no other pragmatism than the pride of being a Utopia
with ever more solidarity; part of the universe with shared
values, in search of the same destiny.
If other continents fashion communities around
religious, racial or geopolitical banners, it is natural that
we, Latin Americans, put forth ours with our own
immense, protean sense of unity.
There was a time, as we followed a different cultural
pattern, when we had a more orderly society and enjoyed
political systems that brought us fame throughout the
world. Practically all Latin American countries
experienced a sort of golden age of culture and politics,
marked by originality. We created literature. We forged
our own laws with our own institutions. We pioneered the
Law of the Sea; we produced the first system against
nuclear weapons, with the Treaty of Tlatelolco.
A concerted Latin American community of nations
would tend to recuperate and exchange training and
educational systems capable of affirming our collective
pride and personality, as Europe has already done, despite
the diversity of its components, out of fear of the return
of thousands of years of violence. Morally, the Latin
American community would be equal to the commercial
and economic commitments made through ALADI, the
Latin American Integration Association, as well as the
Andean Pact, the Central American Common Market and
MERCOSUR, all designed to form a front of solidarity
10


and a crucial link in the economic integration of the
universe.
A conscious Latin American community of nations
would guarantee the sustainable development of the world’s
most varied and richest ecological systems, and would
conceive not only of the larger spaces, but also of the
importance of drinking water, of mining resources, and of
the most varied and richest flora and fauna on the face of
the earth.
Of course, we bring before the United Nations the
many concerns that we have expressed about the fate of our
Organization which, in its 50 years of arbitrating peace, has
charted a new path for the peoples it represents. These
concerns have prompted talk of reforming the Charter, in
order for the Security Council, for instance, to take up and
represent new geopolitical realities, and not only military
might. This is the spirit in which my country, through the
voice of its President, Rafael Caldera, has realistically and
frankly proposed that Brazil be the permanent
representative of Latin America in an enlarged Security
Council. We have also spoken of the justification of
agencies and powers, to make the cost of peace less
burdensome; of the urgent need to adapt the Economic and
Social Council to the necessities of our time, as well as the
Council for Culture, Science and Technology, that is still
the monopoly of industrialized centres. If a common market
for technology were to be established, we would be truly
keeping pace with history.
In America, although less than in Africa and Asia, we
too are disturbed by the growing marginalization, the social
injustice, the poverty bordering on famine, the insecurity
exacerbated by the trade in illicit drugs and its
consequences, which we witness. We produce terrible drugs
in ever greater quantities to satisfy the voracity of the
consumer markets. But, at the same time, we fight this
scourge with the greatest tenacity and determination.
Our community has had the virtue of becoming
practically a breeding ground for democracy, thanks to the
steadfastness of its leaders and thinkers, as well as of the
oldest but least championed regional organization. We must
now see to it that democracy is purged of its dishonesty,
and is cleansed. To this end, at the Hemispheric Summit in
Miami, my Government proposed, with unanimous support,
to put a stop to the impunity of corruption.
We consider that drug trafficking and political
corruption are linked together by money laundering, under
the cover of electoral contributions.
If democracy is to acquire a new respectability, it
will be thanks to the common, concerted effort of
America; an effort which this world Organization will
also be called upon to make in the near future. That is
because political corruption, a manifestation of the
universal mafia, is not exclusive to our region and must
be fought at the global level, just like illicit drug
trafficking.
Very shortly, a world congress against corruption
will be held in China, doubtless inspired by our example.
We hold out great expectations for that congress. Indeed,
we are keenly interested in anything that is sponsored and
advanced by this Organization.
But I wanted to put before the Assembly the
somewhat romantic idea of a Latin American Utopia, that
it might inspire confidence in our neighbours in this
hemisphere and hope in all other regions, whether on an
organized basis or not. This is the spirit in which the Rio
Group has endorsed the oft-repeated proposal for a Latin
American Parliament.
Since the first Great War there has been a
dislocation in Europe, which conveyed itself through
Spain and Portugal; its aesthetic sense of life and
existence through Italy; its modes of thought and
philosophy through France; its political models through
Great Britain and its lasting technologies through
Germany. A regrettable dislocation occurred between
Europe and Latin America, which is truly its most
kindred continent, where we live as distant cousins, and
still the most vibrant and promising offshoot of this
lineage.
If we underscore the need to encourage this idea of
our community, it is because it exists, in fact, although it
is now beset with social problems that require combined
treatment. It also has a legalist existence, since States
such as Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Uruguay and
Venezuela have incorporated it into their political
constitutions.
The greatest tragedy of Latin America is its social
condition, because of the imbalances characteristic of any
large society — irregularities in family patterns,
deficiencies in education, the destruction of homes due to
a lack of ethics — even housing, which was never one of
our biggest problems, has become one, because it is
linked to a sense of ethics at the family level. They are
inseparably linked.
11


We could say, along with Arturo Uslar Pietri that,
caught as we are between the millstones that grind the
political universe, we have given more thought to building
republics than to perfecting the nation that we are.
In spite of all its faults, the United Nations — the
Organization we aspired to and wish to maintain — has
created a civilization. It is responsible for over 300
international treaties: for the consolidation of democracy;
for the dedicated protection of refugees; for self-
determination, freedom, independence, the dignity of life,
the arts, traditions; for coexistence — even if the phantoms
of intolerance reappear; for trade free of protectionism; for
children, women and our indigenous populations. And this,
beyond civilization, we can call the new culture of the
human family.
The Organization has grown and expanded since 1945,
and the world with it. Its many offspring, scattered among
the five continents and virtually all of them free, have led
to a membership quadruple the number of the founding
Members, among them Venezuela, which was represented
then by its great Minister Caracciolo Parra Pérez. At that
time he voiced an idea that has even greater validity today:
“The peoples of the world must know each other
morally and spiritually before they can manage to
dispel the distrust and ignorance which keep them
apart. We must build up a kind of intellectual
network, above the network of the physical
communications system which exists between nations,
or parallel to it.” (Official Records of the United
Nations Conference on International Organization, 7th
plenary meeting, p. 23)
This Organization’s greatest achievement has been to
offer the world a span of half a century during which,
despite remaining fears, it could think of a new course for
harmonizing all aspects of the life of societies with the
nature that shelters those societies.
I congratulate the Organization and the President of
the General Assembly, Mr. Diego Freitas do Amaral, in the
hope that under his leadership the Organization will achieve
all the success it deserves and needs. All races, all
religions, all the most varied shades of humankind bring
their aspirations and their claims here. This is an spacious
home that has always endeavoured to live in the peace that
is and must be the normal condition of life. It has been said
that if health is the peace of the body, peace is the health
of peoples. In that connection, the pre-Socratic philosopher
wrote that in times of peace people awake to the crowing
of roosters, while in times of war they waken to the
clamour of arms; in peace the young bury the old, while
in war the old bury the young.


===== Session 51 - 1996 =====
﻿I would like first of all to congratulate
Ambassador Razali on his election to the presidency of
the Assembly and to wish him every success in his work.
It would seem that after half a century, the debate on
the meaning, importance, role and timeliness of this
Organization has become increasingly impassioned. It
could be said that the United Nations is on trial.
It may be that some of the criticism is justified. It is
accused, for instance, of having a large bureaucracy, and
it is said that there is a proliferation of situations
requiring the deployment of military forces to pave the
path for peace, which is also a path riddled with war.
These situations came about without the consent of the
Member States, who must all bear their share of the costs.
This enlarged bureaucracy, added to the expenses of
military peacekeeping, increases the financial burden of
the weaker countries. Yet, it seems to be the strong
countries that most resent and denounce this burden.
Nevertheless, to thoroughly assess and evaluate what
the United Nations is and what it represents, we would
have to compare it to another such organization of its
kind, one that had brought together nearly 200 sovereign
States, led them by the hand through 50 of the most
enigmatic and dangerous years of history and remained a
point of reference when all the ideological references had
collapsed. And that other organization has never existed.
As far as we know, humanity has never lived
through 50 continuous years of peace, yet 51 years have
passed without a tremor of generalized conflict like the
ones that once seemed to be cyclical. Even though
misunderstandings and aggressions appear on one
continent or another, based on deep-seated racial,
religious or political hatred, and leading to genocide or
local wars, we cannot speak of a conflagration, especially
when the will of the people of all regions rises above
these wars, committed to the restoration of peace.
The international community, in varying degrees, has
started to review its greatest Organization, and it has
focused its attention first on the Security Council.
Fortunately, the creative imagination of States has
suggested various ways to change it in order to make it
more representative of the new world realities and, of
13


course, to make it more efficient. My country follows this
process with enormous interest, aware that the Security
Council will be the centre of balance of the world system.
In the meantime, this long period of relative peace has
allowed for the rise of European integration, which is
perhaps the greatest political achievement of our century. It
has made possible the growth of daring and vigorous
technological civilizations in Asian countries as well as
understanding and growth in the Latin American region,
which today has become, thanks to this understanding,
humankind’s most promising abode. In this framework,
Venezuela has broadened its ties with and deepened its
commitments to the great causes of our time, such as the
enforcement of human rights, truly representative
democracy, integration as an economic and political culture
of our modern era and disarmament as a guarantee of world
security. Tomorrow, on behalf of my country I shall
proudly sign the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty.
My country hopes that the criticism levelled at the
Organization will justify itself by leading to logical plans to
reform and revitalize it. Its success must be definitively
established in the implementation of human rights, in the
fight against terrorism and in the alliance to exterminate
drug trafficking and connected activities. A special session
of the General Assembly has been called on this latter topic
at Mexico’s urging.
In his current report on the work of the Organization,
the Secretary-General refers to the territorial controversy
between Venezuela and Guyana. I must note that this
controversy lies within the framework of the 1966 Geneva
agreement signed by both countries in order to reach a
practical and lasting solution to this dispute. In a spirit of
dialogue and cooperation between the two parties, we
appealed to the Secretary-General’s good offices and are
now applying one of the mechanisms for the peaceful
settlement of disputes provided for in the United Nations
Charter. We are therefore surprised that this case is
expressly mentioned in the chapter on conflict situations.
As a Latin American, I must recognize that, thanks to
this lasting peace, my region, a scion of Europe, and its
creature in many respects, has resumed friendly relations
with its natural metropolis after 80 years of world wars that
had separated us and created a rift in the cultural patterns
that had governed us for centuries.
Of course, numerous threats linger on. The so-called
weapon-States that have the financial resources to spark a
regional conflict that can multiply and spread are still there,
untouched by democratic norms and mostly driven by
fanaticism. In countries where no one would have
imagined it, the danger of racial discrimination returns
like a nightmare. At the very centre of the most cultured
continent, we have witnessed a war and a genocide that
we would angrily condemn in Cambodia or in Rwanda,
and among countries that have been an world example of
tolerance and coexistence for centuries. The followers of
two religions that are virtually the same confront and
exterminate one another almost daily.
At the same time, the conditions of exchanges, the
goals of good policies and the miracle of modern
communications lead to a free flow of trade, technology,
scientific models and human movement, both through
tourism and through commercial interests. All this is
bringing humanity together as a whole, using information
to express an impassioned interest that is beginning to be
widely known as globalization.
The Organization still has to overcome the
prophecies and schemes of pessimistic traditions,
according to which natural law dictates the existence of
wars, diseases and other disasters as a fateful necessity to
regulate population growth and as an incentive to devise
technologies and scientific developments in the escalation
that Malthusians see in their observation of nature.
Peace is the primary purpose of the United Nations;
war is the recourse most commonly used by humanity to
try to solve imbalances and resentments. And we have
peace, ceaselessly troubled but always re-established as
far as and wherever possible. But we must remember that
war is the most chronic of recidivists, since greed and
ambition feed on it.
We might say that what this Organization needs to
solve universal strife, poverty and untrammelled
population growth is a human resource development and
systematic education project to do away with the fragile
ethics of our time and to teach all nations the art of
living — and living together. Fears, suspicions and
animosities are engendered by ignorance among people
and nations.
I speak on behalf of a country whose most important
natural resource has endowed it with power and economic
euphoria on the one hand, and plunged it into acute
psychological depression on the other. That resource is
oil, of which we hold the largest and most secure reserves
in the Western world. Since oil legally belongs to the
State, as do all underground resources, the State finds it,
14


processes it, sells it and distributes its revenues as services.
Little by little, the old agricultural country became used to
stretching out a hand to receive from the State gifts of
protectionism, subsidies, scholarships, credits and even
undue largesse, all of which used to come from the land as
a reward for labour.
For more than two generations Venezuelans relied
exclusively on oil, disregarding personal effort. At times,
the State demagogically encouraged this dependency and
promoted idleness, thus leading to ethical complications
born of collusion between politics and the economy. This
is the deep-seated reason for the so-called Venezuelan
crisis. It is different from others because it is not economic
but moral, and can only be solved by a return to honest
behaviour and personal endeavour, which requires a great
deal of time and effort.
This is what the Administration of President Rafael
Caldera is striving for. After trying to reverse the enormous
evils he inherited, using measures that were not too harmful
economically for the weakest sector, on 15 April, he
decided to open up the economy and incorporate prevailing
market economy values through the Venezuelan Agenda.
He was careful, however, to establish a programme to
absorb the enormous shock this opening causes
transitionally on the majorities accustomed to the old State
paternalism. After a brief period, we are emerging from this
unique crisis, which cannot be and could not have been
resolved by a simple decree, as other crises, since it
required and still requires a change in habits in order for
people to learn to be self-sufficient. The case of Venezuela
could recur in other countries characterized by State
paternalism.
If we look closely at the so-called social crisis that all
Latin American countries suffer, we can see it is due to a
lack of training. We used to say that education was the
universal solution to all problems, and it is. But at a time
when Latin American society has become unhinged because
of peasant migrations undoing the social and moral order,
with the ensuing marginalization brought about by a change
in customs leading to the degradation of the family, both
education and training are absolute necessities.
The breakdown of the traditional home deprives
people of the essential ethical values that used to be learned
from the mother. Nowadays, the State must replace the
home and the mother, in preparing the inner self of its
citizens. It is evident, therefore, that training and education
are of primary importance since the human being’s inner
self must be strengthened in order to rebuild the family
unit, which gives coherence, pride and courage to a
society. Simón Bolívar, the Liberator of America, grasped
the whole problem when he said, “Morality and
enlightenment are our first necessities”. Perhaps the whole
world today suffers the same evil and has the same needs.
The United Nations, through its specialized agencies,
is carrying out innumerable programmes, studies, trials
and experiments to solve the daily tragedy of our human
species. This is becoming more and more complex since
the efforts are aimed at an already deformed being,
incapable, therefore, of living in harmony with others.
If we were to agree that the chain connecting home,
primary school, secondary school, university, and life
broke down some time ago, and that it is missing its first
link, without which all else is pointless and without
foundation, we would invest at the very roots of human
life the economic and scientific resources needed to form
human beings from the start, enabling them to grow,
endowed with the values that would make them citizens.
Latin America, born unaware of racial hatred,
religious conflicts and territorial greed, with an indivisible
spirit made up of a combination of influences that move
in the same direction on the freest and broadest of stages,
is hurt by the fact that its real problems today are social
ones, brought on by the error of political regimes that
ignored the discipline of education or doubted its
undeniable primacy.
Democracy has taken root in Latin America as in no
other part of the universe as a consequence of political
desire. Nevertheless, we are not satisfied, because
democracy must mean the eradication of age-old ills and
constitute, more than merely a system to elect
governments, a cogent civilization.
We aspire to a democracy transparent in its conduct
and effective in its achievements to continue offering it as
an alternative to the ancient dictatorships. This explains
my country’s perseverance in attaining an honest and
clean democracy. In this regard, we have proposed a
convention against corruption, which has been approved
at the hemispheric level. Strangely enough, it would be
the first of its kind in the world, which goes to show how
strongly entrenched this vice is: it has gone unpunished
by dictatorships and democracies alike throughout time
and around the world.
The day is not distant when this instrument, limited
now to our hemisphere, will encompass our whole
15


Organization, since the crime it prosecutes is not
exclusively American but takes root in many countries on
all continents. During the last substantive session of the
Economic and Social Council, Venezuela, together with
Argentina, the United States and other countries, sponsored
a United Nations declaration on corruption and bribery in
transnational commercial activities, which is clear proof that
the fight against unpunished corruption prospers in the
world.
If the United Nations, aware that the key to universal
change lies in training and education, were to inspire and
lead an in-depth study of what makes a human being, of the
way societies that break into conflict or serve as models for
others are defined by the sum of their members; if the
United Nations were to use the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to add a
universal teaching component to all its cooperation
programmes, then the true ethical and human redemption of
society would begin.
Free of prejudice and with sufficient resources, Latin
America, a melting pot of customs and races, could serve
as a laboratory to show how the human species can
straighten its spine of ethics, which has been so twisted in
so many places. Our America as a whole is a welcoming
place for peace, since there are no elements of unease or
insecurity other than social asymmetries — not the
asymmetries of blood-lines, but those of dire poverty, born
of the incapacity to transform and distribute our plentiful
natural resources.
We are living a unique moment in history. In a short
time, without violence, we have seen great empires come to
an end, the elimination of the cruellest jails of human
thought, the liberation of all wills and the opening of the
greatest opportunity peoples have ever had to reorganize
themselves in accordance with hopes and desires that were
long repressed or thwarted by violence of all sorts.
As Marguerite Yourcenar says in her biography of
Hadrian, referring to the religious perplexity of the great
Emperor: in his lifetime the old gods no longer existed and
Christ had not yet arrived. Humanity’s present spirit seems
to be similar: free, but still dazed and hesitant to adopt a
new order from a new mould; but, above all, free, although
at this fateful moment great leaders might be lacking.
The United Nations holds and reflects this feeling —
hovering between jubilation and disbelief — like a prodigy
standing before the panorama of infinite possibilities of
what we can create with the fertile dreams of our era.








===== Session 52 - 1997 =====
﻿Speaking here on behalf of my country, I wish to
congratulate the new Secretary-General of the Organization,
Mr. Kofi Annan, who, after nine months in his post, now
for the first time faces the responsibility of a session of the
General Assembly, a session that is likely to be noteworthy
and hard-working. Given his vast experience, he is well
aware that the prestige and influence of his important post
derive from the impartiality that places him above all
pressure of interests and raises him to the permanent status
of arbitrator for all and a symbol of the Organization.
I also wish to offer my congratulations to the Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Mr. Hennadiy Udovenko,
on his appointment as President of this session of the
General Assembly.
The pace of events today means that subjects that we
considered just last year seem obsolete. Nevertheless, as we
have still not found solutions to the most pressing problems
facing the international community, it is logical to keep
returning to those that are of concern to every member of
that community and to the community as a whole, which
now finds itself in the midst of the most rapid process of
change in history.
Inevitably, therefore, we will again go over, for
example, human rights, the rule of law, free elections, the
war on drugs, corruption, disarmament, terrorism and other
compelling issues that crop up constantly among our
concerns and in our work nowadays.
I must place on record the fact that the Government of
Venezuela has taken measures on all these issues to ensure
increased respect for human rights, to wage war on drugs
and to promote further disarmament and assist in the fight
against corruption. Naturally, it is not easy for any country
to show a clean record. A Government’s good intentions as
regards human rights will always immediately come up
against recurring internal violence and still untamed unruly
elements, as in the example constantly presented by the
audiovisual media in developed countries. But the will
exists and an effort is being made to make Government
agencies increasingly aware of our resolve to protect
guarantee human rights.
I wish to highlight the work done by the first United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ecuador, Mr. José Ayala-
Lasso, and welcome the new High Commissioner, the
former President of Ireland, Mrs. Mary Robinson, to
whom my country wishes every success in the stimulating
but difficult task ahead of her.
With regard to corruption, terrorism and
disarmament, my country, which proposed and was able
to gain approval for the Inter-American Convention —
the first of its kind in the world — in March 1996,
remains steadfast in its efforts to ensure that every
country is aware of the need to punish wrongdoing in
government, wrongdoing that has tended to be treated
with great indulgence. It may not be possible to eradicate
corruption, but timely punishment — by ending
impunity — will make such action risky.
We have been enthusiastic supporters of all
initiatives aimed at limiting the arms trade, in addition to
being aware that there are free markets often beyond
Government control, we are concerned that the
industrialized countries, by lifting embargoes in this field,
may begin moving towards the opposite extreme and
promote the sale of weapons everywhere, under pressure
from the military industry, which has an extremely
powerful lobby.
My country has resolutely backed the programme to
eliminate landmines, hundreds of millions of which have
been irresponsibly and thoughtlessly scattered in
territories on every continent, daily taking their toll of
many innocent victims, particularly children, whose
mutilation by landmines is a constant reminder that we
need to ensure justice for humankind.
The fact that Venezuela has a neighbour where
illegal drugs continue to be planted, processed and sold
places us in the unfortunate position of being part of the
supply route and within an area influenced by drug
money. That is why the Government of Venezuela has
taken every precaution to keep this danger to a minimum.
It fights trafficking on land and sea and in the air, and
has intercepted large shipments of drugs. The official in
charge of all Government action against this powerful
enemy of humankind has been given the rank of Minister.
It goes without saying that we look forward
hopefully to the next special session of the General
Assembly, on illegal drug trafficking, to be held at the
request of Mexico. We hope that it will produce clear
solutions that will enable us to wage a more successful
war on this scourge and, above all, put an end to money
laundering, where Government efforts have so far been
least successful.
11


As the threat of ever more pitiless and atrocious acts
of terrorism has spread around the world and, to no small
extent, here on our American continent, Venezuela has
taken an interest in ensuring that the international
community is made increasingly aware of its
responsibilities in joint efforts to approve a convention for
the suppression of terrorist bombings. That convention is
currently being considered by the General Assembly, in a
body that should be completing its work shortly.
When the Inter-American Convention against
Corruption was approved, we voiced our hope that, given
that the disregard for of ethical standards that has fostered
this crime has been a worldwide and not a strictly
American phenomenon, the subject would one day be taken
up by the United Nations in order to produce an
international convention giving voice to the concern felt by
all countries over this problem and harnessing the general
willingness to put an end to impunity. The day seems to
have come when the Member States of this Organization
will work together to do away with the tolerance
encountered on all continents towards this canker afflicting
politics and administration; a canker whose breeding ground
is not underdevelopment, but the moral decay of the State
and society; a canker that seriously and increasingly hinders
the trade that is a necessary part of economic globalization.
My Government has welcomed the idea of changes not
only in the structure, but even in the philosophy of this 50-
year-old Organization. Since the lives of the peoples of this
world have undergone such profound changes, it would be
inexcusable for the United Nations, which represents them
all, to remain untouched.
We have considered the various plans for reforms and
watched the efforts made by the outgoing President of the
General Assembly over these past few months to achieve
some, at least, of the essential changes to the system during
his term in office. And, although we believe this issue to be
both timely and urgent, we do not feel that there is
imminent consensus on the suggested changes which, above
all, relate to membership on the Security Council. In any
case, it is only fair to recognize the serious efforts being
made to end the stagnation within this Organization and
launch the debate that is just beginning.
Venezuela supports an increase in the number of
permanent Members on the Security Council, provided
there is no discrimination of any kind and that there is due
regard for the interests of the international community,
including fair representation of all geographical regions, in
line with other new circumstances.
We feel that there are great expectations and high
hopes that the Secretariat will become more efficient and
that the Organization’s burden of projected expenditures
may be eased. It is also essential that Member States pay
their contributions on time. None of us can refuse to
honour a freely accepted obligation, nor make payment
conditional in a way that presents a threat to the equality
of States and the dignity of the world forum of which we
are a part.
My country’s position, however, is not limited to
this alone. It goes beyond an analysis of the opportunities
and rules of the veto to the elimination of the veto
altogether. It has to do with the reform of the Secretariat
itself and with economic and social issues, especially
funding for development, as envisaged in the relevant
document. That is why we feel that consideration should
be given to the ideas recently expressed by both the
Group of 77 and the Non-Aligned Movement as regards
not only this subject, but also consensus on the other
reforms.
Venezuela supports the convening of an international
conference on financing for development, in cooperation
with international financial institutions, to propose
innovative and bold mechanisms in this area. Such
mechanisms must include the mobilization of capital
resources for investment in non-industrialized countries
while at the same time, opening the door to the
opportunities offered by the private sector.
Non-governmental organizations — increasingly
active in today’s world — could contribute even more
towards attainment of the aims of the Charter of United
Nations in this field of action. My country has launched
an intensive round of consultations with these
organizations in what it has called a “Dialogue between
senior Government and non-governmental organizations”,
so as to draw up a plan for the promotion, protection and
observance of human rights in Venezuela.
We welcomed the Convention on the Law of the
Non-Navigational Uses of International Watercourses as
a well-conceived initiative. That is why Venezuela played
an active role in the various stages of the drafting of the
document, which required years of work, and led to the
successful conclusion of a document that includes
virtually all the provisions on this subject that exist in
international law. My country signed the Convention
yesterday and we call upon other countries to do the
same.
12


As Venezuela has always been in favour of the
establishment of an international criminal court, we wish to
draw attention to what the international community has
done to deal with and punish international crimes against
peace and security, first with the creation of ad hoc courts
and then with the creation of a permanent body such as that
court. By thus institutionalizing and centralizing the
political will of States, we will help prevent the possibility
of the winners in a conflict from being tempted to become
the judges of the defeated.
This seems the appropriate time and place to mention
the Ibero-American community of which Venezuela is a
part and the five hundredth anniversary of Christopher
Columbus’s only landing on continental America in his
voyages.
Since 1991, 500 years after the discovery of America,
thanks to an initiative of the King of Spain, the 21
countries that proudly share the honour of being members
of the Ibero-American community have met once a year, in
a different city each time. I say “proudly” because in their
colonial endeavours both Spain and Portugal took a
missionary approach. While imposing their political power
and territorial government, they also disseminated
Christianity and passed on with conviction their European
civilization and culture. Thus in Spanish and Portuguese
America, the mixing of blood and cultures took root,
making our world a different one, a world characterized by
social egalitarianism, religious tolerance and a strong and
deeply rooted freedom. The effects of this situation, which
defines and unites American existence from north to south,
makes this community stand out. It does not set it apart
from others, but, in this era of globalization, it affirms the
very particular features of Ibero-American identity.
This idea has evolved well, beginning in Guadalajara,
then continuing in Madrid, Salvador de Bahia, Cartagena,
Bariloche and Santiago. The seventh summit meeting will
be held on Margarita Island in my country.
As the host country suggests the key topic for
discussion at each meeting, the President of Venezuela,
Mr. Rafael Caldera, has proposed the general heading of
“Ethical values of democracy”, a suggestion that has been
accepted with great enthusiasm.
The Governments of Venezuela and the other 20
countries of Ibero-America insist that it is not enough to
have formal democracy if corruption is rampant, if
inefficiency persists, if justice is not effective, or if the
action taken by the democratic sectors is neither
satisfactory nor transparent.
Thus, this general topic encompasses other very
specific issues having to do with social justice, human
rights, electoral transparency elections, the sincerity of
political parties and, unavoidably, truth in information.
That is the nucleus of the agenda for the meeting to be
held on 8 and 9 November on Margarita Island.
It is not out of place to explain to this Assembly that
there are good reasons for this agenda. The economic
changes and the political upheavals of our world have
wreaked havoc on the set of values that was, until
recently, the foundation on which people’s lives rested.
The weakness of social justice is pathetic. In more
than a few countries, unavoidable macroeconomic
adjustments have affected vast numbers of people who are
victims of injustice and who are unable, both mentally
and physically, of coping with these changes, leaving
them even worse off than they were before. Something
must be done to improve the lot of these multitudes
during a transition that, although necessary, is still
painful.
The subject of human rights, which I mentioned
briefly at the beginning of my statement, is vitally
important, and it would not be surprising if some day it
were to replace “democracy” as a term and as a concept.
Certain statements on this subject may have been
exaggerated in the heat of the moment. But the truth is
that we must march firmly forward towards a time when
every human being, without exception, feels for his fellow
man the same respect that he asks for himself. This is a
matter of education, training and will on the part of
Governments, so that the bad examples from the more
developed countries that are passed on by the media do
not lead the developing countries to continue violating
these rights.
Despite the fact that democracy has taken root in
virtually all the countries in our region — seemingly the
desideratum of our times — it now faces a variety of
dangers, such as elections rigged by international
organized crime. The most specific and dangerous case
has to do with the influential role that drug trafficking
and money laundering now play in elections, allowing
crime to become closely entwined with political power.
My country’s position in this regard is to warn
political parties to make sure their electoral campaigns are
13


transparent by keeping these campaigns short and to the
point so as to avoid any improper financial influence.
Democracy is, by its very nature, a system of political
parties. There is no democratic system without political
parties. Yet it is obvious that the downfall of democracy is
often due to carelessness on the part of the political parties
on which it is based, when, setting aside the ethics of
service, ideology and efficiency, they are tempted to take
advantage of the resources of the State using the pretext of
lengthy, complex and costly election campaigns. It would
seem that the time has come to return to the old political
ideas or to invent new means of expression in order to heal
and revitalize democracy.
Many people reacted by voicing doubts and fears
when the subject of the people’s right to truthful
information was raised. Media groups have even claimed
that this proposal is full of hidden dangers. Nevertheless,
the straightforward intent of this proposal is to strengthen
the influence of the media at a time when they are virtually
the first estate. We consider this right to be the counterpart
to the media’s right to carry out their activities in absolute
freedom, given the fact that society legitimately aspires, in
turn, to be properly, accurately and truthfully informed.
In an era in which the media have the most amazing
technologies at their disposal — such as those providing
instantaneous communication — there can be no
explanation for information that distorts, embellishes or
tampers with the truth. All the power that we give the
media, essential for the values of democracy, would be lost
if the media were to step outside their role and begin
voicing opinions instead of reporting or made themselves
part of the day-to-day debate of ideas.
What Venezuela hopes to achieve by this debate is to
make clear the responsibilities that each actor must play in
a democracy, and the media are very important actors. That
is the reason for this initiative: to warn and caution them,
not by suggesting rules, but by appealing to a sense of
responsibility, prompted by their own conscience, with
regard to the worthy part that information must play in
building a safe and trusting society.
Following on from comments I made at this year’s
Ibero-American Summit in Venezuela, I wish to mention
the five-hundredth anniversary of the day when Christopher
Columbus set foot on continental America, in August 1498,
at the Paria Peninsula in Venezuela. Until then the feats of
exploration by the discoverer of the New World had been
limited to the islands of the Caribbean. He was not
absolutely sure that he was actually standing on
continental soil when in 1498 he reached Macuro, a small
village on the eastern coast of Venezuela, but he certainly
wondered as he witnessed the thrust of a strong current
that overcame the gentle waves and gave proof of the
presence of a great river, the Orinoco. This was an
extremely important event for my country, which we plan
to commemorate properly. It was the only time the great
admiral stood on terra firma, which he called “Land of
Grace”. In making this announcement, we hope the global
community will join us in our celebration.
In closing, I wish to express Venezuela’s faith in the
ability of the Organization to act as a permanent arbitrator
for peace and development. There is a greater need every
day for the United Nations to act as the voice and
conscience of humanity, but never as the spokesperson or
tool of any group, region or interest other than the
community which created it and of which it is the core.












===== Session 53 - 1998 =====
Please accept my sincere congratulations, Sir, on your
election. I am convinced that your solid academic
background and valuable experience as a statesman will
serve your country, Uruguay, well, and will strengthen
Latin America?s image.
I also congratulate the Secretary-General on the
excellent report he submitted to the General Assembly at
this fifty-third session. It is a document rich in profound
analysis and noteworthy proposals for these new times.
I am speaking on behalf of Venezuela before the
General Assembly of the United Nations at a time when my
Government?s term is drawing to a close, in just a few
months. Venezuela?s words are candid and sincere, for we
are ever at the ready to make our modest but solid
contribution to the establishment of stable friendship and an
effective and durable peace among all the peoples of the
world.
The century that is drawing to a close has left a deep
imprint on human history. Two gigantic wars nearly put
an end to our civilization?s impressive progress and,
above all, to the respect for human rights that is
fundamental to all progress. An unparalleled revolution
seemed destined to change decisively the face and destiny
of the world, and the end of that revolution was the most
striking and fortunate surprise the world has ever seen.
The world war that started in 1914 revealed to the
horror-stricken eyes of the world the human capacity for
evil and destruction. But it was followed by two decades
of lavishness and squandering that made people forget the
root causes of the conflagration. The attempt to create a
League of Nations awakened ideals and showed the way,
but it disintegrated when the thunder of cannons
announced the outbreak of the Second World War. The
subsequent post-war era, enriched by the bitter lessons of
experience, encouraged by suffering and inspired by the
ideals of peace and liberty, lived for five decades under
the threat of nuclear war. The terrible catastrophe
predicted as the inevitable result of the so-called cold war
remained at the forefront of the world?s concerns until the
memorable fall of the Berlin Wall, which opened the new
era in which humanity now finds itself.
For half a century peacekeeping has been a difficult
and sometimes agonizing task. Faith in ideals was not
enough to resolve the problems; what was needed was the
will and firm purpose, illuminated by experience.
The United Nations has undoubtedly played a very
important role in this peacekeeping task, despite all the
deficiencies and errors it could be accused of. It has been
the irreplaceable forum where all countries could talk to
each other, where all ideologies, all ethnic groups, all
political systems, could meet, without losing sight of the
goal of encouraging and fostering freedom everywhere
and of practising and promoting, by all legal means
possible, the democratic system, the only system that is
truly compatible with respect for human rights and the
free competition of all to govern. The Organization has
managed to keep its respected position, and today we
hope to be able to strengthen it further so as to work
firmly together to confront the new problems and
realities, something that will require ever greater efforts.
The century that is coming to an end has also been
a time of incredible transformations. Air travel, which had
10


been the dream of a few visionaries, has become an
everyday reality, and each hour thousands of people fly in
and out of airports around the globe. The great adventure
of space exploration has now left progress in air travel
behind, starting with man?s travels to the moon.
The very nature of the planet we live on has been the
object of comparisons that take us across infinite distances
in our thoughts about the basic nature of the universe. The
position of our solar system and the global unity we live in,
in relation to the whole cosmos, is a subject we are trying
more and more to define and penetrate.
Furthermore, in just a few short years, compared with
the span of history, the communications revolution has
made the world more unified, more interdependent, more in
need of standards and systems that cannot be imposed by
the most powerful, but must be the result of consensus,
with respect for each individual?s identity and right to life.
In today?s society we are fully conscious of the
infinite presence of what is large, but we also have a
precise idea of the importance of what is infinitely small.
The technological revolution has not left an iota of
knowledge untouched by its transforming impact. And those
who cultivate thought, pure science and art laboriously
search for new avenues, driven by a zeal that arises from
the progress already achieved in changing mankind?s way
of life.
We strongly favour the Secretary-General?s plans for
reform of the Organization. We are convinced that the
Security Council must be enlarged. The establishment of
the International Criminal Court represents an important
step in the juridical life of the international community. The
fight against drug trafficking and terrorism increasingly
requires that the international community become its centre
of coordination. These are delicate and demanding problems
that cannot be left to the individual actions of States,
however powerful. The international community therefore
faces an arduous task.
The fight against poverty has been one of the most
important aspects of international action in the last few
years. The World Summit for Social Development reflected
one of the priority concerns of the United Nations. The
ongoing activities of specialized agencies and the projects
of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
mark out a clear path in the search for a solution to this
problem, a path that must be extended over the whole
surface of the Earth. We know full well that peace, true
peace, stable and permanent peace, requires justice, and that
justice is most truly expressed in social justice. This was
recognized by the victorious countries in the Treaty of
Versailles at the end of the First World War, and it was
also expressed in the Declaration of Philadelphia of 1944
by the belligerents about to triumph in the Second World
War. The fight against poverty is ever more necessary
and urgent, for the market economy and the current
globalization process cannot on their own respond to the
demands that social problems make on world leaders.
In addition to its positive aspects and the progress it
undeniably entails, the complex phenomenon we have
come to call globalization can also have progressively
negative effects on the emerging developing countries.
Faced with the world?s present imbalance, we must
therefore make a special point of emphasizing the harmful
effects of international financial speculation. The balance
of terror imposed by the cold war has been replaced by
a lack of financial discipline, by ruthless speculation that
is alien to the values of solidarity and ethics that should
prevail even in technology?s most sophisticated advances.
The poorest countries are the traumatized victims of this
reality, but the whole world community may be
threatened by this situation that will affect even the
advanced countries. No one can escape the consequences
of this situation. I therefore believe that today?s
international agenda must concentrate on this critical
point, giving it priority over other objectives that, though
also important, must give way to this indispensable
matter.
My country?s delegation to the United Nations has
set forth, first to the Group of 77 and then to the General
Assembly, the need to call a special meeting to study the
financing of developing countries. If financial assistance
to the developing countries is not addressed on a priority
basis, if the necessary resources are not forthcoming from
the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, as
well as other agencies dealing with the basic aims of
development, globalization will not be as successful as we
could hope it to be.
The effects of the Asian crisis on Latin America
have resulted in the weakening of some currencies, a
significant downturn in the capital markets, rising internal
interest rates, restrictions to the obtention of external
credits and a rapid increase in the risk factors for many
emerging countries.
The visible effects of the phenomenon of
globalization have demonstrated the imperfections of the
international financial and monetary system, which has
11


recently been characterized by, inter alia, the sharp impact
of the participation of powerful financial groups and the
decisive actions of certain parties, such as the agencies that
assess risk, certain of which have become a worse threat
than the terrible forces of other times. The time is ripe to
encourage a better understanding between developed and
developing countries, all equally affected by financial
instability. Venezuela believes that financial and monetary
issues must have a permanent place on the agenda of the
United Nations system. To that end, the exchange of ideas
between the Organization and the international financial
institutions that make up the Bretton Woods system must be
encouraged and strengthened.
Fundamentally, globalization will depend on the
balance between rich and poor, between the more advanced,
the intermediately advanced and the least developed
nations, and on the application of equitable formulas to
alleviate the external debt burden referred to by the
Secretary-General in his report.
At the end of the twentieth century, there is no more
important objective than to steer the concern of the
international community in this direction. If measures are
not taken to put an end to the abuses of what His Holiness
John Paul II called savage capitalism, which gives rise,
with its excessive desire for profit, to unstable situations
that are transmitted with vertiginous speed to all the world?s
economic centres, we will have replaced the fear of nuclear
war with the threat of an economic and social catastrophe.
It is my view that in today?s globalized world, one of
the primary commitments of the community of nations,
working through and coordinated by the United Nations, is
to strengthen its resolve to prevent and correct unacceptable
imbalances, and to ensure the awareness and capacity of the
international financial mechanisms for facing contingencies.
In a few weeks, the people of Venezuela will go to the
polls to elect their new leaders. For 40 consecutive years,
at each constitutionally determined interval, the transfer of
power stipulated by the Constitution of the Republic has
been carried out. In shifting circumstances, the institution
of democracy has remained stable in an atmosphere of full
and absolute freedom. A difficult economic situation and
the winds of change that are blowing throughout the world
and are becoming stronger on the eve of a new millennium
have focused Venezuela?s political debate on the idea of
change. I am nevertheless convinced that, despite the
change Venezuela envisages, its people?s love for liberty
and democracy as the best system of government and its
commitment to fight for peace and understanding among
all nations will remain unaltered.
May I remind the Assembly that, although our fight
for political independence was perhaps the bloodiest of
the nineteenth century, we have not had a single violent
conflict with any other country since the birth of our
Republic. In international forums, Venezuela has
distinguished itself by its constant support for universal
peace and has always made its modest contribution to any
initiative in favour of justice and peace. That is why I can
assure the Assembly that the next Government of
Venezuela, whatever the electorate may decide, will
continue to follow the same path within the United
Nations. The Organization can rely on Venezuela for
anything relating to service to any and all human beings,
or to friendship, cooperation and peace among nations,
and anything required by the fight against crime, poverty,
drug-trafficking, terrorism, hatred, discrimination — all
the evils that have beset humanity. We trust that the
United Nations will always stand against those evils as a
shield against adversity and a beacon of hope.
















===== Session 54 - 1999 =====
First, I
wish to express my very great pleasure at speaking for the
first time in this world forum as head of State and at
greeting its members on behalf of the people of Venezuela
and my Government, and particularly at speaking at this
session of the General Assembly, the last of this century
and millennium, which, for us, adds special meaning to
the event.
My presence here also affords me an opportunity to
express some ideas on the times and circumstances in
which we are now living, all of us worldwide but also,
and a little more specifically, about times and
circumstances in my own country. These are times and
circumstances, Mr. President and members, which of
course we share with you.
A few years ago, when the Berlin Wall fell, I think
someone said that peace had broken out. I truly believe
that that expression covers a series of phenomena which
began to surface at that time and subsequently evolved
and developed to become part of the global scenario. In
my view, this rapid emergence of phenomena,
simultaneously all round the world, each of them with so
many distinguishing characteristics, has made it more
difficult to understand, appreciate and realistically
perceive what is actually happening in the world today.
Many analysts of that time spoke of quantum leaps.
I believe that a quantum leap is indeed under way; there
is an ongoing process of universal change, mutation even.
I also believe that we must sharpen our ability to analyse
and observe this phenomenon — open conflicts, resurgent
nationalisms, racial and religious conflicts — which are
occurring in a world that is undergoing processes of
fusion while at the same time undergoing dangerous and
alarming processes of fission. We are entering the new


century with these signs around us which at one and the
same time are cause for concern and reason for optimism
at the changes unfolding. Actually, there are many
praiseworthy things about the century that is closing, but
there are also many things worthy of condemnation and
from which we should learn our lesson so that they do not
recur.
Within that process of universal change, there is a
country small in size, a nearby country — Venezuela —
that faces its own changes; a country that is undertaking its
own irrevocable and necessary changes; a country that is
being reborn from its own ashes; a country that is once
again raising the flag of true, authentic democracy. I shall
speak a few words here about that country, my country, our
country, your country: Venezuela. Venezuela, blessed by
the hand of God; Venezuela, in the very north with an
outstanding geographic location; Venezuela, full of
incalculable natural wealth; Venezuela, which has one of
the world’s largest oil reserves and mineral resources of all
kinds, such as gold, diamonds, bauxite and iron ore;
Venezuela, which has water; Venezuela, which has fertile
soil; Venezuela, which has scarcely 20 million inhabitants
for almost 1 million square kilometres. But 80 per cent of
the inhabitants of this wealth-filled country are poor.
For many years it was said of Venezuela that it was a
model of democracy in the world and in Latin America.
However, today it is undergoing a process of profound
change, a crisis unprecedented in our history — a moral
crisis, an economic crisis, a political crisis, a social
crisis — which has brought it to dangerous extremes, with
explosive forces that have been building for decades.
Even so, in Venezuela we have found a peaceful way
out of the morass, the tragedy. We have discovered a way
that is fully democratic. We have encouraged changes in
Venezuela towards respect for human rights, as is right and
proper, because, however tragic the situation, however
urgent the need for change, never, in our view, should
human rights, respect for freedom of expression, respect for
the intrinsic values of the individual, respect for freedom of
the press and respect for freedom of thought be set aside.
The Venezuelan people has arisen from its own ashes.
I should also like to add — and you, Mr. President,
and members undoubtedly know this — that the
Venezuelan people is a people with a great historical
legacy: it is the birthplace of Simón Bol'var, the Liberator,
one of the greats of the millennium. Venezuela carries in its
essence the seed of democracy, of fraternity and solidarity.
We must therefore acknowledge the ability of Venezuelan
people, which we represent here in this Assembly, to find
peaceful and democratic solutions to a profound crisis
which in other places and other eras, would have given
rise to the violent and regrettable acts that have
submerged many peoples in fratricidal conflict for years
and even decades at a time.
We know that the world has had a great deal of
news about Venezuela in recent months, some of it a little
disturbing as a result of the confusion and speed of the
changes. I thank representatives for allowing me a few
minutes to take the opportunity to assure the entire world
that in Venezuela there was respect, is respect and will
continue to be respect for a democratic process which
emanates from the will of the people. For example, last
December there were elections in Venezuela, which
produced a positive result for democracy. We won the
elections with almost 60 per cent of the popular vote.
Subsequently, on 2 February this year, the very day
that we arrived at the Government Palace, we did
something which had never before happened in my
country: we called for a national referendum. In that
referendum, held on 25 April, the country voted for the
electoral path leading to a constituent assembly. Ninety-
two per cent said “Yes”, and on 25 July there were open
elections, in which all political and social sectors
participated, with absolute freedom of expression,
freedom of criticism and freedom of the press, the likes
of which had never occurred in my country.
The National Constituent Assembly that resulted
from that electoral process consists of 131 Venezuelan
men and women, representing the broadest segments of
society, including indigenous peoples, because for the first
time in Venezuela's history a group of aborigines
represent the indigenous peoples of Venezuela in the great
Assembly. The Assembly members have been working
together for a month and a half on a new national
constitution in a mechanism of cooperation. The entire
country is promoting progress towards this new
Constitution; for the sake of the democracy we are
defending and advocating, it will be approved only by the
country. It will not enter into force until it is approved by
the Venezuelans in a new referendum, which we hope
will be held in November, or at the latest in December.
In other words, when the new century dawns next
year Venezuela will have a new political project, a
fundamental new charter as the foundation of the new
Republic and of truly legitimate executive power
governing by democracy — as Abraham Lincoln said, for
2


the people and by the people. We will have a genuine
judicial power, which we had lost in the past few years
owing to corruption. This judicial power will administer
justice. We rely on true legislative power to respond to the
calls and needs of the Venezuelan people.
We also propose the establishment of a fourth
power — moral power — to combat corruption, the mother
of all Venezuelan crises of recent years, and to fight for
education, especially for children. We further propose an
electoral power to achieve a balance of power. There will
be a division of powers, particularly legitimate powers, with
the profound popular content of true democracy.
We are also promoting a new economic model for
Venezuela. For 20 years we experienced a terrible crisis
that produced the breakdown of a country, the breakdown
of a model. We are now promoting a humanistic,
productive, competitive and diversified economic model,
based on the great potential of our country and
incorporating the world currents of a new international
economic order, with greater justice and a human face,
which will facilitate satisfying the needs of the human
being. This must be one of the fundamental goals of any
economic process.
In just over six months we have been able to come
here to tell the world of our successes — small successes,
but they presage what is going to happen in Venezuela. We
have undertaken an economic revitalization, respecting all
economic freedoms. In a healthy coexistence between the
State and the market, we have been gaining ground in the
macroeconomic area. We have started to bring down
inflation; maintained our international reserves; helped raise
the price of a barrel of oil, in cooperation with the other
oil-producing countries; and brought about an exchange
balance. We have also been revitalizing some production
sectors, and we are calling on global investors to invest in
various petrochemical, gas, touristic, industrial and
agricultural projects and enterprises. We are thus building
a new economic model.
We are also building a new society based on public
morality in respect of human rights. I shall give an
example, small, but one which says a lot about what is
happening in Venezuela in terms of the social order. Barely
three days ago the 1999-2000 school year began. This year
the school matriculation — that is, the number of students
in public schools — increased by 25 per cent. As a result
of a model of privatization of education, and of the poverty
that has been invading the social strata, many children and
young people did not go to school; they could not pay the
fees, nor could they pay for school supplies. This year we
have opened up the schools and we have been repairing
them. Now we are very happy to tell the world that in
just six months the number of children and young people
starting a new school year has increased by 25 per cent.
Furthermore, attention to education has gone beyond
being one of the principal national priorities; it is now a
matter of States.
The same can be said of health. We have activated
a special plan which we call “Project Bolivar 2000”. For
six months we have been dealing with Venezuelans'
greatest needs, such as health, road repairs and opening
ways of penetration and activation of some sectors of
microenterprises. We have set up a people's bank to
provide microcredit especially to bring about the recovery
of the economy, the microeconomy. We have created a
unique social fund to promote solutions basically for
health and education.
As can be seen, we are promoting a genuine process
of transition: politically, socially, economically and, above
all, ethically. A new Venezuela is being born, born to
present itself to the world free and sovereign, ready to
take up firmly the flags of a new world, a fairer world.
We are in solidarity with the struggles of the world. The
world of the century to come must be much better than
the world of the twentieth century which is ending. We
call out for justice for the peoples of the third world, for
equality and human development. We appeal for the
integration of peoples and for peace. Only a country
revitalized from within can be incorporated by its own
strength into the international relations of a modern world,
such as the world which is dawning.
In this part of South America, Venezuela is being
reborn and offering the world its heart, its arms of
integration. I give a special salute to all the peoples of the
Latin American continent and the Caribbean, Central
America, North America, Asia, Africa, Europe and
Oceania. We must continue together, with a new sense of
brotherhood, to struggle for a better world.
In this my first statement to the General Assembly,
in the last session of the century, when we are preparing
for the Millennium Assembly, I should like to
congratulate you, Mr. President, the Secretary-General
and all the world representatives gathered here at the
United Nations, because we are aware of the great effort
being made to reform and perfect the machinery to
achieve peace, brotherhood and solidarity in a world that
3


is, as I said at the beginning, undergoing profound change.
These words come from my heart and go out to the
entire world in the name of a people who are themselves
being reborn — the Venezuelan people — with our best
wishes that each day we may find greater strength and
come closer to attaining — as I said before — the path to
peace, brotherhood, development, justice and self-
determination. Let us not say as someone else has said that
peace has broken out. Rather, let us say that in the next few
years we may all be able to proclaim loudly that peace,
democracy and development have triumphed.
I send a warm embrace to you all on behalf of the
people of Simon Bolivar, the people of Venezuela.




===== Session 55 - 2000 =====
I
again extend our congratulations to the President on his
election.
The Millennium Summit has charted for us a plan
of action for the immediate future. We must
consistently bear that plan of action in mind as our
main priority, and direct all our work towards its
11

effective implementation. We cannot view the final
document adopted by the most important gathering of
world leaders ever held as a mere expression of good
intentions and act as though it were a matter of routine
and as if nothing had happened.
First, we must take action to ensure that the vast
majority of the human race living in developing
countries make significant progress towards the
attainment of sustainable development. We must make
special efforts with respect to the millions of men,
women and children who live in poverty. They must be
given means of subsistence, education and medical
care.
Our most important shared instrument, the United
Nations, is currently ill-equipped for that enormous
task. We must therefore focus on giving it the power
and means to play an effective role in that important
effort. We believe that the United Nations must play a
central role in the struggle for development. To that
end, we must consider without delay ways to
strengthen the General Assembly, our most democratic
and open institution. It is equally necessary to
strengthen the Organization's primary instrument in
this field, the Economic and Social Council, which
should become a real council for human development,
with authority and ability to act comparable to the
Security Council's.
The message of the Millennium Summit is very
clear: peace and development are equally important,
and each depends on the other. The most urgent tasks
in the struggle against poverty are also clear: to
alleviate the debt burden of highly indebted poor
countries; to tackle the scourges of AIDS and malaria;
and to provide education for all. In all of those tasks
the United Nations must play a leadership role.
In order to meet the established goals of reducing
world poverty by half by 2015, we must ensure that
national Government's measures adopted in accordance
with the social platform of United Nations conferences,
to benefit their populations in the areas of health, food
and education, are accompanied by international
cooperation based on solidarity, in order that those
tasks are carried out efficiently and promptly.
It is therefore particularly important, in order to
support the objectives of, and strategies for, poverty
eradication, that developed countries meet their
commitment to dedicate 0.7 per cent of gross domestic
product to official development assistance.
It is equally urgent to ensure that the rules
regulating international trade and finance are just and
equitable, not only in theory but also in practice, so
that they lead to development for all, and not merely to
the further enrichment of a privileged minority.
In that regard, the high-level intergovernmental
meeting on financing for development, to be held next
year, should result in effective coordination and
harmonization of all the efforts Governments and
international organizations, so that those efforts may
bear tangible fruits meeting the needs of all countries.
The United Nations must be the coordinating centre for
the World Trade Organization and the Bretton Woods
institutions.
With regard to foreign debt, it is vital that the
international community promote, on the basis of
North-South dialogue, the adoption of concerted
measures for the effective resolution of this problem,
which is seriously weakening the sustained economic
growth of developing countries affected by the
excessive burden of debt servicing. We believe that it
will be necessary to consider the timely rescheduling
on favourable terms of the international financial
commitments of developing countries, including highly
indebted poor countries and medium-income countries.
The freeing of resources currently allocated to
debt payment will make it possible for those countries
more efficiently to meet the real needs of their
populations in the areas of food, health and education.
It will also promote their peoples' participation and full
integration within their respective societies. It is also
necessary to recognize the economic and social costs
incurred by developing countries in meeting foreign
debt payments.
Shared responsibility in dealing with economic
and social issues, as well as with regard to questions of
peace, requires more intensive and effective
participation by developing countries in the world
economy, particularly in decision-making and the
formulation of international and economic norms.
The efforts of the developing countries towards
poverty eradication, economic and social progress,
sustained economic growth and sustainable
development are dependent on a favourable
international economic environment and on
international cooperation for renewed and strengthened
development. The magnitude and urgency of the
challenges facing us in the economic and social sphere
12

require the support of all Member States in order to
realize the aspirations of those who cry out for a more
equitable and just world, in which poverty eradication
and the promotion of development are a genuine
expression of international peace and stability.
As for our other main priority, the maintenance of
peace, we must learn from our experience — both from
our mistakes and from our achievements.
The United Nations must be provided with the
means to anticipate and prevent conflicts, not just put
an end to them once they have erupted.
In this respect, disarmament, including nuclear
disarmament, is vital, as is the elimination of the illicit
arms trade. Also key is the struggle against
transnational criminal activities such as terrorism and
the illicit drug trade.
In this context, we welcome the proposal of the
Secretary-General to convene an international
conference on the reduction of the nuclear threat. We
believe that this could help strengthen the commitment
to eliminate nuclear weapons, as recently agreed at the
sixth Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT).
Venezuela supports the convening of the United
Nations Conference on the Illicit Trade in Small Arms
and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects, to be held next
year. That Conference will be a perfect opportunity for
us to combine our efforts to adopt measures of
cooperation to eliminate this illicit activity, which has
links to organized transnational crime and is
encouraged by unscrupulous groups or individuals who
act unlawfully.
The role of the United Nations as the only forum
empowered to authorize the use of force must be
reaffirmed, without distinctions or exceptions, apart
from self-defence, which in turn must be in strict
compliance with the provisions of the Charter.
It is urgent to this end to make effective progress
towards reform of the Security Council. This does not
mean mere cosmetic change, but rather real reform,
with a view to ensuring its credibility as a democratic,
transparent and impartial organ in which no country
has the right to block, through the use of the veto,
action agreed by the majority.
If we wish the Millennium Summit to have real
significance, if we want it to be remembered not only
because of the milestone represented by the
participation of an unprecedented number of world
leaders, we must take concrete action at this session of
the General Assembly. Towards that end, Venezuela
fully supports the proposal made recently by the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Uruguay to create a
working group to ensure implementation of the
Millennium Summit Declaration. We believe that this
group should be open to participation by all Member
States. We believe also that the representatives of the
countries that co-chaired the Summit and those that
presided over the four round tables, as well as the
Chairmen of the regional groups, should participate
actively in this process.











===== Session 56 - 2001 =====
﻿Just
over a year ago, we were here, attending the
Millennium Summit, some 100 days before the dawn of
the twenty-first century. At that time, I made a
statement on behalf of Venezuela and its Bolivarian
people, referring to the supreme example of Christ and
his struggle for justice, peace and life.
In the brief span of time since then, having
embarked on the new century — albeit with very
painful steps, I should say — we have suffered the
abominable terrorist attack of 11 September. In
opposition to the culture of peace, to the dialogue
among civilizations declared by the United Nations in
2001 and to the good will of the peoples of the world,
the drums of war are suddenly thundering again and we
say, louder and more passionately than we have in the
past, that this struggle for peace is of fundamental
importance.
From the outset, Venezuela and its people,
Government and institutions have joined in the chorus
of voices that first rose to reject these heinous acts. At
this meeting in New York, in this incredible city, in this
nation of North America, we take this opportunity to
reiterate our grief and sympathy for the people and
Government of the United States and its institutions
over the attacks and the pain they have caused. We say,
as we have said from the very day of the tragedy that
has plunged the world into mourning and peril, that the
fight against terrorism should become a war against
war — a fight to achieve peace.
At the Millennium Summit, we also said, like
Simón Bolívar, the liberator of South America,
remembering his dream of the summit of Chimborazo:
Let us speak the truth to all men and women. And
precisely on the basis of the horrible and frightful
truths that we are experiencing today in the world, let
us call for a new world pact in the United Nations. We
said in that speech just over one year ago that at the
present time in our world human beings continue to die
each day, but now the figures have doubled, and not
because of a world war. No, now the principal causes
of the horrible truth affecting the world’s people are
poverty, marginalization and hunger. What is foremost
in this dramatic and tragic moment is that we must
recognize the truth and then build a new global pact in
the United Nations without delay.
Now, at the beginning of the twenty-first century
and the third millennium, we at the United Nations
should concentrate our greatest possible efforts on the
moral, intellectual, scientific, social, cultural, economic
and financial order in the fight against the demons of
hunger, poverty and death that afflict the planet. This is
what we said a year ago in this beautiful setting. I
believe we are fulfilling the mandate of Bolívar to state
the truth to all men and women.
Venezuela recognized the validity, the necessity,
the great vision and the truth that our Secretary-
General launched as a challenge to all of us in the
preparatory document that subsequently became the
Millennium Declaration. Today, our dear friend Kofi
Annan reminded us of that challenge in his comments
opening this session of debates, when he recalled, for
example, that last year we committed ourselves to
reducing poverty 50 per cent by the year 2015, having
set quantifiable and precise goals, such as reducing by
half the number of human beings who survive on
incomes of less than one dollar per day.
At the Millennium Summit, great truths were
stated and we heard the appeals of our peoples. We said
then and continue to say that all of the world’s children
must have access to a full education by the year 2015.
As the Secretary-General also reminded us, all human
beings should have access to potable water. We are not
talking about the Internet — we are talking about
drinking water, the water basic to life.
The goals set last year were discussed over the
following weeks in hundreds of marvellous speeches.
But today, one year later, we must continue to ask
ourselves how we are going to achieve them. What are
the successful strategies that can be employed to
achieve these lofty goals? The answer is justice, the
only path to true peace. We said that we had come to
uncover truths; that for the honour, dignity and life of
our peoples, we must come here to speak without fear.
We said that here, in this setting, we must speak
without the double standard that sometimes invades our
discussions. As I see our brothers from India here, I
think of the Hindu philosopher Jiddu Krishnamurti,
who spoke of truth as a basic dynamic in understanding
the secrets of life. Truth, truth, truth. We want truths. If
we do not recognize truths, it will be difficult for us to
24

find true solutions to the horrible tragedies that the
world is living through.
On behalf of the people of Venezuela, I return
here today to contribute ideas to the effort to seek
truths and to speak true words that spring from a
combination of reason and passion. They are not just
cold words on paper but come from the heart, and they
must not remain on paper as cold discourse but must
touch the wound of real truth. Today, truth is an open
wound and it is our ultimate challenge to heal it. We
come, then, without fear, in good faith and with much
optimism about life, brotherhood, unity and the
possibility that we, as the leaders of our countries, can
seek, grasp and build together real solutions to real
problems in the quest for justice and peace.
We in Venezuela believe that the world must be
examined under a great and powerful magnifying glass,
because it has gone to bad to worse, stumbling and
struggling from error to error. At the end of the Second
World War, the United Nations was born to struggle for
peace and prevent new horrors from happening. We
have not avoided those horrors. The Berlin Wall and
the Soviet Union fell at the end of the twentieth
century, and voices were raised saying history has
come to an end: we have arrived at the end of our path,
the final era, one of technology, of the global village,
of globalization, of the new world order. This is the
triumph of a model — the triumph of one philosophy
as the result of the collapse of another. But that claim
was a lie. Who can claim victory in today’s world,
which is filled with poverty and tears, pain and death?
What model could claim victory?
Venezuela would like to make a fervent and
passionate appeal, hopeful that we will be properly
understood — indeed, we are sure that we will be,
because we are speaking with love, faith and hope,
calling on the Lord God, invoking life and peace and
respect for brotherhood. Let our words be properly
understood. We must undertake a thorough
examination of and review the political models that
exist in our countries today. In America we speak of
democracy — yes, democracy. But in Venezuela we ask
what kind of democracy we are talking about. A
democracy such as Venezuela had for 40 years, from
1958 to 1998, which ended up destroying a people,
taking away their sovereignty and causing them to live
in poverty in a fertile land rich with resources such as
oil and gold? That was no more than an ornamental
flourish that mimicked democracy, and it ended in
tyranny. We never again want such a democracy in
Venezuela, and we are certain that we will never have
it again. Democracy must be based on popular
participation, ethics, justice and equality.
We in Venezuela have been saying that we must
also review the economic models that some tried to put
in place among our peoples. Is neoliberalism the way?
Yes — it is the way to hell. Let us traverse the streets
and cities of Latin America and we will see the
consequences of neoliberal policies run wild, as His
Holiness John Paul II has said. We must review our
economies, our ethics, our policies — everything must
be re-examined today if we want the world to be a
viable place and if we want peace to reign on earth.
Is globalization the path to development? It could
be, if it were based on justice, equality and respectful
relations among all. We need to re-examine everything.
As Viviane Forrester said, using the phrase “economic
horror”, the world is undergoing a process of change,
and that should also be cause for optimism. The world
is changing; it is moving on. New developments are
taking place; let us move with them, peacefully and
democratically, while searching for justice. As Ignacio
Ramonet said in his reflections in Le Monde
Diplomatique, alternative paths are appearing all over
the world. Venezuela is making its humble contribution
through a peaceful and democratic revolution. We are
committed to the human being, to an international
policy of peace, friendship, respect and multipolarity.
And we are here today to reaffirm that commitment.
Venezuela is speaking out in condemning
terrorism. Venezuela is speaking out — and taking
action — in expressing its solidarity in the struggle
against terrorism. At the same time, in speaking out we
are giving voice to the mandate of the United Nations
to ensure respect for international law and human
rights. Any action taken against any crime must be
legitimate. It must be based on respect for human rights
and international law. No one should understand
Venezuela’s words to be a condemnation of anything or
anyone. We are calling for reflection so as to ensure
that we act within the norms of international law and
the mandates of the United Nations. We cannot throw
that overboard.
Venezuela has also shouldered its responsibility
in various forums and international arenas. Within the
Organization of American States, we are proposing that
a social charter be adopted, in addition to the
25

Democratic Charter, to give more weight to our
continent’s struggles to place the human being at the
forefront of our endeavours. Within the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, of which we hold the
presidency of the conference of heads of State, we
proposed — and achieved consensus among all — to
ensure balance and dialogue between the producers and
consumers of oil, aware as we are of the need to
guarantee supplies and a fair price for all for that vital
resource for development and for life.
Within the Group of Fifteen, Venezuela, which
holds the chairmanship, is promoting the North-South
dialogue, in particular the need to revitalize it. It
should not be a dialogue of the deaf, but a dialogue of
equals who are seeking solutions — dialogue and
cooperation of South with South and of Latin American
and the Caribbean with Africa, Asia and all the peoples
of the world. Within the Group of 77, Venezuela is
working for the same strategic consensus, dialogue and
unity. We are very optimistic, as everyone should be.
Despite everything, however, we need great
political will — greater political will — to bring about
all of those changes and transformations. To use the
vocabulary of the theory of war, we must put the
cavalry on the front line. The cavalry is policy; the
cavalry is ethics and the will for change, which we
must promote.
Finally, I believe that, over and above the pain,
the condemnation and the struggle against terrorism
and against the savages who perpetrated those horrific
attacks, the greatest honour must go to the fallen — the
innocent victims of those acts, and the many other
victims throughout the world, those who have suffered
and for whom we have wept: the innocent children who
have fallen, the men and the women. The British Prime
Minister, Tony Blair, said something that I thought was
wonderful in response to a comment that I made during
a conversation we had in Downing Street a few days
ago. He said that if anything good can come from this
crisis and this pain, it is a global alliance to combat the
causes of violence throughout the world.
Those who have spoken before me have pointed
out many of these causes. The Emir of Qatar and
Chairman of the Organization of the Islamic
Conference also made a very important point. He said
that our words should not once again remain empty. As
we say in our part of the world, there is a big difference
between words and action. Now is the time to move
towards concrete action. We want to see a Palestinian
State become a reality. Let us not come here day after
day, month after month and year after year just to
repeat the same old words. Let us move on towards
reality. We want to see the transformation of the
Bretton Woods institutions. We want to see the
transformation of the International Monetary Fund and
the World Bank. We want justice for the wretched of
the Earth, as Frantz Fanon said. But we want it now,
not tomorrow; tomorrow may be too late.
In conclusion, as I said during the debate on 7
September last year, quoting from the Bible,
“To everything there is a season, and a time
to every purpose under the heaven”. (The Holy
Bible, Ecclesiastes 3:1)
Sisters and brothers of this planet in sorrow, of this our
world, let us do all that we can. Truly, we must
transform this difficult time in which we are living into
a time of the people, a time of justice; that is the only
way to achieve genuine peace. As I ended by saying
last year, let us save the world!








===== Session 57 - 2002 =====
﻿The
heroic people of Venezuela and its revolutionary
Government greet all peoples and all Governments of
the world represented in the General Assembly of the
United Nations.
I must begin by underlining the intense activity
that Venezuela has undertaken within the framework of
the agenda of the United Nations this year of 2002. For
that reason, we made the effort to come here to this
most timely session of the General Assembly.
Venezuela began the year by assuming in January
the presidency of the Group of 77 and China. We
coordinated and managed that very important group of
countries of the world, primarily the countries of the
third world. First, we coordinated the preparations,
documents, agreements and dialogues leading up to the
Monterrey Summit, where we attended, speaking on
behalf of the countries of the South and especially on
behalf of the countries of the Group of 77 and China.
Venezuela then continued that effort by coordinating
our Group in preparation for the important
Johannesburg Summit on Sustainable Development,
held a few days ago. The discussions at the
Johannesburg Summit are still fresh in our minds.
This year, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela
also held the presidency of the Group of 15, another
important group of developing countries fighting for
greater scope in the political, economic and social
domains.
Finally, Venezuela has had a very intense agenda
at the United Nations during this year of 2002, and in
the remaining months we wish to finish the year with
an even greater intensity, making proposals,
coordinating actions and seeking decisions to complete
and contribute our modest effort in the search for the
solutions, goals and objectives set out in this Hall
during the historic Millennium Summit of 2000.
Thus we come once again to this Hall to ensure
that the world hears the voice of millions of men,
women and children who fight daily for their life and
dignity by striving towards justice in the homeland of
SimÛn Bolvar.
To begin, I would say that this session of the
General Assembly is meeting amidst the suffering and
2

mourning afflicting the people of the United States, the
people and city of New York and all peoples of the
world, on this first anniversary of the heinous acts of
11 September. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela,
from the soul of its heroic people and from the heart of
its revolutionary and democratic Government, prays to
God our Lord for the eternal peace of the victims of
those horrible events. It also reiterates its sentiments of
solidarity and condolences to their families. It affirms
its condemnation of those who planned and carried out
those terrorist actions. We also offer our efforts in the
fight against the scourge of terrorism in the world in its
most diverse facets and manifestations. However, at the
same time, Venezuela stresses the necessity of
recognizing the complexity of the alarming situation in
the world today. The direct condemnation of terrorism
must necessarily be accompanied  for ethical and
moral reasons  by an equally forceful condemnation
of the causes and processes that have transformed the
world into an infinite sum of marginalized individuals
and a reign of injustice, inequality and poverty. It is
written in the Bible, which contains God's words, that
the only path to peace is justice.
The resolute repudiation of terrorism must also be
accompanied by an unreserved political resolve on the
part of the leaders of the world to acknowledge, for
example, that today's international economic system
fuels a process in which the perverse doctrine of
unbridled neoliberalism leads to greater poverty,
inequality and despair among the poor peoples of our
earth.
For example, 17 people die of hunger every
minute in the world. If we were to fulfil all the
commitments undertaken to combat poverty, it would
take us 130 years to eradicate it from the planet,
according to figures cited in the most recent report of
the United Nations Development Programme.
The condemnation of terrorism must go hand in
hand with a decision-making process that will make it
possible to make greater headway in the war  the
war, I stress  against poverty. For that reason,
Venezuela has consistently advocated  first at
Monterrey and then, more recently, at Johannesburg 
that an international humanitarian fund should be
created whose resources might come, for example,
from a percentage of global military expenditure. It
could be funded by a percentage of the immense
resources, those billions and billions of dollars, that
we, the developing countries, the poor countries,
annually transfer to the developed world through the
perverse mechanism of external debt  or eternal debt,
I should say.
I am sure that the countries of Africa and Asia
can tell the same story as we in Latin America do. In
the last 20 years of the twentieth century, Latin
America paid off more than twice the amount of its
external debt. But now it turns out that we owe more
than when we began this whole perverse process.
It seems only fair to me that, given the situation
that faces the world and the bleak path that we are
following, this issue must be debated. Why not transfer
a portion of this eternal debt' to an international
humanitarian fund  a fund that could also be
financed by monies confiscated from drug traffickers,
who do so much harm in the world, and from corrupt
individuals who have walked off with billions of
dollars from poor countries.
Venezuela has a list that it will provide to the
police forces of the world. It will assist them in getting
back billions of dollars and in transferring them to an
international fund. Such a fund could also be financed
through a tax that could be levied, quite justly, on
major speculative capital transactions. There could be
other possible sources as well; of course, this would
require a very high-level political decision at the global
level.
Today, faced with the world's tragedy, Venezuela
insists on this idea, and we ask the United Nations to
engage in a debate on this issue. In Johannesburg, for
example, I recall that we began very interesting
discussions in a number of round table meetings in
which Venezuela participated. We discussed this topic,
and I was very gratified to see a consensus emerge
among the heads of State and Government present
there. I was very pleased with the support expressed for
that idea by the President of brotherly Brazil, Fernando
Henrique Cardoso, who, during the Johannesburg
round tables, commented on the need to create
instruments such as this, given that today's
international financial agencies are not adequately
equipped to combat poverty  a scourge that besets all
of humankind.
President Cardoso referred to the Marshall Plan,
which was put into effect to assist Europe in the post-
war period. I think that today we would need hundreds
of Marshall Plans around the world to save the
countries of the third word from hell and from death.
3

But just as we condemn global terrorism and its
causes, I have come to the Assembly also on behalf of
the valiant people of the Bolivarian Republic to
denounce out loud other kinds of terrorism and other
kinds of causes. In Venezuela, we have seen the
beginning of a process of planned, systematic
terrorism, which erupted in violence and blood also on
the eleventh  11 April, not 11 September  this year,
that is, five months ago. On that day, a fascist putsch
overthrew the legitimate Government that I am
privileged to head, and installed, for an extremely brief
period, a dictatorship that filled with fear the streets,
cities and villages of our beloved Venezuela.
What were the causes of that bloody terrorist
coup d'état, which resulted in the loss of dozens of
human lives and wounded hundreds of people, who are
still recovering from their very serious injuries? Quite
simply, what we had was a democratic Government 
a legitimate Government elected by the people; a
Government that has committed itself to revolutionary
democracy and to political, economic and social
change; a Government that has very resolutely and very
seriously undertaken to put into effect the principles of
the United Nations; a Government that has undertaken
the task of carrying out social actions that will
transform society in order to bring justice and equality
to our people; a Government that has doubled the
budget for education in less than three years; a
Government that has doubled the health-care budget; a
Government that has reduced by 10 per cent infant
malnutrition; a Government that has increased by 10
per cent its people's access to drinking water; a
Government that has reduced infant mortality from 21
per 1,000 to 17 per 1,000; a Government that has
increased by 30 per cent children and adolescents'
access to free and compulsory public education. This is
a Government that has had to deal with the wild
neoliberal privatization of health and education, a
Government that began by reducing poverty and
marginalization in a country that is full of wealth but
has been governed by senseless elitists who were
completely insensitive to people's needs. A
Government such as this was overthrown by a fascist
alliance among privileged sectors, factions instigating a
coup d'état using media terror.
There is an issue in today's world that needs to be
discussed in the world but few dare to do so; I would
like to be bold enough to discuss it. This issue is the
use of mass media in the world. Venezuela is a good
case to be studied. Mass media, exploiting the freedom
of expression and the freedom of the press, supported
the putsch and manipulated society. The most appalling
thing was that, when the people reacted against the
dictatorship, the popular reaction was silenced and
broadcasting was stopped and nobody knew what was
happening in Venezuela. I think this is a special case of
ethics in media communications that deserves to be
studied.
A little while ago, a great intellectual and Latin
American writer, the Uruguayan Eduardo Galeano,
author of Open Veins of Latin America spoke of the
question of mass media around the world and said this
great truth: Never have so few deceived so many.' We
need to tackle this with courage as we face the
beginning of this century. The elitist perpetrators of the
putsch used the mass media and think they can
continue to use them. They used police terrorism and
military terrorism and achieved a very powerful
alliance that was successful in overthrowing the
Government and succeeded in taking me prisoner and
keeping me incommunicado for many hours on a
Caribbean island. This fascist coup eliminated the
Congress, overthrew all laws and all public branches of
authority and did away with the judicial branch. It
seized mayors and members of Parliament elected by
the population. However, in spite of all of this, they
could not oppress us. Within a few hours, something
happened in Venezuela that has scarcely ever happened
in any country or nation. People began to rush out into
the streets, without weapons, with only the weapons of
their courage and their hearts and with the Bolivarian
Constitution in their hands. Millions of men and
women and young people went out into the streets,
clamouring for respect for their dignity and  miracle
of miracles  in less than forty-eight hours, the
Government along with patriotic soldiers overthrew the
dictatorship, restored the Constitution, rescued the
President who had been abducted and restored
democracy to Venezuela. This was a miracle. Only a
people that is united can achieve this. Only a people
that is conscious and active can sweep away such
fascist and terrorist assaults. This was the first time
that this was ever seen in any nation for a very long
time.
Mine is a people that has regained its libertarian
essence and its liberating essence. A people that, since
the time of SimÛn Bolvar hardly two hundred years
ago, has worked together with Colombia, Ecuador,
4

Peru, Bolivia, Panama to achieve the independence of
half of the continent of the Americas. This is the
Venezuelan people for whom I, once again, reaffirm
my undying love and devotion for their courage and
dignity.
And here, from this rostrum, on behalf of this
people, I offer my sincere and warm thanks for all the
gestures of solidarity that we received from here, from
the United Nations, from the Organization of American
States, from Governments and above all, from many
countries of the Americas. Messages came also from
Asia, Europe, Africa and Oceania, because this was a
unique situation at the beginning of this century. This
constitution is a revolutionary peaceloving and
democratic document. It was drafted by the people
itself and is now being defended and promoted by the
people.
In conclusion, following these events we in
Venezuela are aware, we know  I realize that many
people do not yet know  we have experienced
terrorism first hand.
A few days ago a video came out, more proof of
what was being planned in Venezuela. In that video an
international journalist made some revelations, stating
that he was called in the morning on the day of the
coup and that, long before the first person fell dead as a
result of shooting by a number of snipers  there were
some foreigners among them  the coup perpetrators
were already recording a message in which they said
that President Ch·vez had ordered people to be killed
and that there had been six deaths. Well before the
firing and the massacre of defenceless people began,
they had already recorded this message.
Ultimately, fortunately, the military and civilian
reaction was very rapid, because the terror that had
been planned against the Venezuelan people on a
massive scale would have meant that terrorist practices
would be applied against anything that was popular or
democratic in Venezuela. They expected to repeal the
Constitution. But, of course, it was restored within
forty-eight hours because of the peaceful democratic
revolution brought about by the people.
We are grateful for the international community's
unequivocal condemnation of the coup d'état  the
nightmare  that we experienced for some days in
Venezuela. And we reaffirm that our Government, in
which Venezuelans have placed their confidence in a
number of successive democratic processes, will not
engage in a witch hunt, or carrying out summary trials
or executions. As the people say  there is a song they
sing in the streets: He's back, he's back, he's back.'
With strict adherence to our humanitarian and
Bolivarian tradition and upholding our national
Constitution, we came back with our Constitution in
our hands on the popular tide that swept the legitimate
Government back, along with the Constitution, and put
an end to the terrorists, the coup d'état and its
perpetrators. For the first time in Venezuela's history,
victory in a political conflict  and bear in mind that
this was the overthrow of a dictatorship  meant that
the Government that returned respected those who had
been defeated.
We have now engaged in a major national
dialogue, a national debate. In this we have also
requested the help of the United Nations through the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and
asked for support from representatives of the
Organization of American States. We have also
requested support from the Carter Center headed by
former President Jimmy Carter.
We are grateful for their support and we reaffirm
that Venezuela will continue to be guided by God and
by the hand of its people, with the Bolivarian
Constitution in its grasp. In doing so we will be joining
the world to contribute to seek out alternatives to the
economic models that have unleashed hunger and
misery upon the world. We will continue to make our
modest contribution, backed by the efforts of millions.
We will continue to make a supreme effort to change
the world and to make it viable so that, as soon as
possible in the twenty-first century, justice will be
achieved. For, as the word of God has asserted for
thousands of years, justice is absolutely the only path
to genuine peace.






===== Session 58 - 2003 =====
I begin this speech with mixed emotions —
happiness over the election of our friend Julian Hunte
— Minister of our sister country in the Caribbean,
Saint Lucia — as President of this body; and pain,
because our United Nations lost one of its best people,
as did Brazil, an exemplary member of one of the
world’s soundest diplomatic systems. Sergio Vieira de
Mello died for peace and human rights, causes that
illuminated his life as a diplomat and a Brazilian.
There are other unfortunate examples from other
times. We lost Anna Lindh, Swedish Minister for Foreign
Affairs, and daughter of the one of the countries most
closely linked to social justice, who was educated in
the Nordic tradition of social advancement and
commitment to peace and democracy. Years earlier,
another Swede — Olaf Palme — died, a man of peace and
good will, to whom the international community bade
farewell with the song of Chilean Violeta Parra, Gracias a
la vida, as a tribute to his struggles on behalf of the
persecuted, the disenfranchised and the impoverished.
At the beginning of the 1960s, while on a peace
mission, United Nations Secretary-General Dag
Hammarskjöld, also from Sweden, died in what was
apparently an accident, amid the tangled, political
turbulence in a Congo assailed by its enemies at home,
as well as international factors that were depriving its
sovereign leadership of vital oxygen. Still earlier,
Count Folke Bernadotte — also Swedish — was a
victim of terrorism while on a peace mission for the
United Nations in Jerusalem. Even before that, at the
end of the Second World War, Swedish diplomat Raoul
Wallenberg, who, from Budapest, opened the way to
freedom for Jews who were being persecuted by Nazi
barbarity, disappeared without a trace.
It seems that nothing has changed. Social
injustice goes on forever. Conflicts repeat themselves.
The protagonists of historic change are physically
eliminated or morally destroyed. The advocacy of
violence is dragging us towards terrorism and war.
Inspired by the values of social justice,
democracy and peace, on behalf of the President of the

Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, Hugo Chávez Fr'as,
I wish to reaffirm our support for the United Nations
from a position that is critical yet unambiguous and
totally consistent with its loftiest goals. These same
values inspire us in Venezuela, a country that prided
itself on being the richest and most democratic nation in
Latin America, but that squandered its privileged
historical opportunities and fell into a process of ethnical
and social decay that has brought us close to the abyss.
As a result, we had to assume a profound process of
transformation towards peace and democracy.
The sectors affected by the democratic
transformation have resorted to force to frustrate this
commitment of the majority. They have resorted to
military coup, oil sabotage, financial panic and media
terrorism. Thank God that they failed, but they still
caused much damage.
The provisions of a Constitution approved by the
people in a referendum that expands the basis of
democracy in a social State founded on law, and which
is truly our country plan for all, have generated violent
and anti-democratic opposition. Opening the way to
participatory democracy and to an economy that is free,
yet not anarchic, and that protects private freedoms
without bowing to the almighty market, has stirred up
the most egoistic and insensitive sector of our country
and of the international community — the neoliberals.
On this subject, His Holiness Pope Paul VI, in his
encyclical Populorum Progressio, of March 1967, said
“This unchecked liberalism leads to dictatorship
rightly denounced by Pius XI as producing ‘the
international imperialism of money’. One cannot
condemn such abuses too strongly by solemnly
recalling once again that the economy is at the
service of man.”
Entrepreneurs who took no risks, protected by a
colluding Government under a captive market, who did
not compete and who evaded taxation promoted a
conspiracy against the legitimate Government of
Venezuela, allied with international sectors that had
been past beneficiaries.
Now, therefore, our democracy, threatened
unsuccessfully by certain Venezuelan media magnates,
invites members of the international community to see
for themselves in Venezuela the strength of our society
and the immense civil liberties available in our country,
including the broadest freedom of expression in our
entire hemisphere. We will welcome witnesses to come
to Venezuela and watch our television, read our
newspapers, interview the owners of the private media,
listen to commentators and news anchors, and draw
their own conclusions. We need them to familiarize
themselves with the most hidden threat against
democracy: the media dictatorship, a mirror of the
culture of violence and mediocrity.
Our process of social change in peace and
democracy was interrupted by an assault against
legality by the media and their hypnotized followers. In
scarcely three days, during their ephemeral de facto
Government, all democratic institutions were
abolished, before people and soldiers in the streets
restored normalcy. Today, we aspire to peace and
reconciliation among Venezuelans. In our democracy,
there is room and hope for everyone.
We want also peace for our sister Colombia and
in Northern Ireland, in the Balkans, between Jews and
Palestinians and throughout the world. Peace is also the
aspiration of the Members of the United Nations, but
there will not be lasting peace without social justice; there
will not be stable democracies without social justice; and
freedom will be a fraud without social justice.
We congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi
Annan, on his balanced and firm guidance of the
Organization at the very difficult time that the world is
passing through and on his wise and heartfelt message
to this democratic Assembly.
This year, our activities in the General Assembly are
overclouded by the attack on the United Nations
headquarters in Baghdad, where so many faithful servants
of the Organization lost their lives, by the aftermath of
the war and the tense situation existing in the Middle East
and by the alarming world poverty indices, a scenario that
leads us to profound reflection and demands that we
strengthen the Organization’s capacity to respond.
Venezuela’s action has been aimed at restoring
and promoting multilateralism as a means and a
blueprint for the shaping of a more democratic world.
Unilateralism is monochromatic, worn out, oppressive
and authoritarian; multilateralism is polychromatic,
animated, tolerant and democratic. In that conviction, we
assumed the responsibility of chairing the Group of 77
last year and the Group of 15, whose summit meeting we
will hold next year in my country. There are mechanisms
through which the developing world is expressing its
multilateral voice and its aspirations to the universal
common good and to international social justice.
37

Historical developments since 1945 require that
we have a more democratic and more representative
Security Council. We must strengthen the General
Assembly given its democratic and participatory nature.
We want the Economic and Social Council to be the
powerful organ that it has not been allowed to be.
The Charter of the United Nations cannot be
tailored to suit unilateral conveniences. War is not a
romantic adventure that brings us to a happy ending in
which the superheroes defeat the villains. Sometimes,
war turns into a death trap that causes harsher suffering
than the suffering that, in theory, it intends to alleviate.
Sometimes, it brings other wars, more violence and
more terrorism.
Use of force by the State should not be
undertaken at the discretion of those who happen to be
interested at the time. The responsibility of the
Organization’s Members is collective, as the
international security that we want to protect and
guarantee must be. We all desire a better world for
future generations, and why not for ourselves? We are
all protagonists in this world drama; hegemonies
appear archaic and authoritarian. Our objective is a
strengthened, universal and democratic Organization.
A year ago in this Hall, we condemned the
abominable terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001, in
which we lost thousands of citizens of the United
States and of other countries. That sudden holocaust
was perhaps the product of religious fundamentalism,
but it is unjust to single out the believers of one faith
for acts of extremist minorities when other minorities
of believers have also committed crimes against
humanity in the name of the Lord. Terrorism destroys
human lives, both of innocents and of combatants; it
torments family members, friends and peoples. There is
no good terrorism, not in the name of an ethnicity or of
a nationality; not in the name of justice or of freedom;
not in the name of God.
Four days ago, on behalf of the Bolivarian
Republic of Venezuela, I deposited the ratification
instruments of the International Convention for the
Suppression of Terrorist Bombings, the International
Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of
Terrorism and the Optional Protocol to the Convention
on the Rights of the Child on the involvement of
children in armed conflicts. Yesterday, the Venezuelan
Parliament made the Inter-American Convention
against Terrorism a law of the Republic. We hope that
the ratification procedure will be completed within the
Organization of American States as soon as possible.
Nevertheless, we must continue the frontal assault
on the most widespread and destructive forms of
terrorism: poverty and social exclusion. The developing
world is suffering from hunger, poverty and exclusion
caused by an unjust economic system enveloped in the
practices of savage neo-liberalism and in the globalized
economy with an unfair scheme of commercial trade
that generates unemployment, exploitation, inequality
and resentment. It is a system that attacks the dignity of
the human person. Its leaders are not accustomed to
speaking of social justice in their statements.
One initiative that the President of Venezuela has
undertaken to fight poverty is the creation of an
international humanitarian fund that we proposed at the
International Conference on Financing for Development,
held at Monterrey; at the World Summit on Sustainable
Development, held at Johannesburg; and once again in
the General Assembly. The fund is designed to be a
consistent and innovative source for financing non-
refundable resources coming from the reduction of
military expenditures and money confiscated as a result
of narco-trafficking and corruption. It will be an
effective formula of international assistance to generate
opportunities for economic and social progress in
countries excluded from traditional financing schemes.
Converging proposals make us optimistic in the light of
this type of initiative.
I conclude with a quotation from His Holiness
John Paul II in 1994:
“The world longs for peace and has a
desperate need of peace. Yet wars, conflicts,
increasing violence and situations of social unrest
and endemic poverty continue to reap innocent
victims and to cause divisions between
individuals and peoples. At times peace appears a
truly unattainable goal! In a climate made cold by
indifference and occasionally poisoned by hatred,
how can one hope for the dawn of an era of
peace, which only feelings of solidarity and of
love can usher in?”
That is how all Members of the Organization should
concentrate our efforts to find the necessary means that
will enable us to ensure peace and democracy at home
and in the international community, availing ourselves
of the best antidote to violence: social justice.









===== Session 59 - 2004 =====
There
are moments we can describe as historical turning
points, when nations and peoples must decide which
side they are on. This is one of these moments, when
history will judge us and examine if we were
democratic leaders that represented the will of our
peoples.
It is clear that the peoples of the world are taking
a stand against neo-liberal economics and war. They
are fighting against those who would impose their will
by military force and economic violence. They are
resisting those who would undermine and even
overthrow the basic principles that founded this
Organization that brings us together today. Under such
conditions, Venezuela echoes the call of the
Secretary-General, Mr. Kofi Annan, that all the nations
that proclaim the rule of law in their territory respect it
abroad.
As you know, the majority of the peoples and
Governments of the world took a stand against the
illegal war in Iraq. In this context, Venezuela reaffirms
the words of President Rodríguez Zapatero that peace
is a task that demands more courage, more
determination and more heroism than war.
The principal question for us is now the
following: are we building a world of real democracy,
equality and justice or a world led by the tyranny of
economic and military power? The people of
Venezuela were faced with such a decision last month,
with a referendum on the presidency. In fact, in the last
six years, Venezuelans have participated in eight
democratic procedures, including referendums and
elections. The 1999 Bolivarian Constitution of
Venezuela allows for a mid-term referendum on a
recall of the popular vote. On 15 August of this year,
citizens of Venezuela clearly exercised their
constitutional right and, in an historic referendum
never before seen in the history of the world, ratified
the mandate of President Hugo Chávez Frías, thus
confirming the democratic process of structural
transformation led by our President.
Since the end of the last millennium, we have
witnessed tremendous dissent from citizens of the
world against neo-liberalism and war. In my country,
by the late eighties, a set of structural adjustments,
developed under the influence of the main centres of
neo-liberal capitalism, was met with a popular uprising
that paralysed the country, leaving an indelible mark on
our people’s minds. That resistance, popularly known
as “El Caracazo”, was perhaps the first protest against
neo-liberalism. The poor took control of the capital,
Caracas, as well as cities across the country to
demonstrate their discontent with increasing poverty
and the unjust distribution of the profits from our
nation’s oil wealth. The ruling Government of the day
responded by sending in armed forces to suppress the
protests, killing thousands of people. That was a
painfully tragic moment for the people of Venezuela.
Nevertheless, that event provoked the necessary
consciousness, igniting a political awakening among
the people that allowed them to unite their voices in the
fight against neo-liberalism.
Over the next decade, we witnessed protests
against the World Trade Organization and against neo-
44

liberalism in Chiapas, Davos, Seattle, Prague, Quebec
City and Genoa. Wherever the architects of neo-
liberalism gathered, they were met with massive
protests in the streets.
We also witnessed the desperate actions of the
brave South Korean farmer in Cancún, who gave his
life to call attention to the plight of his fellow farmers
on the brink of disaster throughout the world.
The war in Iraq only strengthened the global
protests. On 15 February 2003, an estimated 30 million
people around the world marched in protest and
disbelief, unwilling to stand idly by as once again the
world’s screams fell on deaf ears, as not-so-smart
bombs fell on little children without knowing why. If
we combine the protests against neo-liberal
globalization with the anti-war demonstrations, we will
find a global rebellion of revolutionary proportions has
started. What we need to decide now is whether we
will march in the streets alongside our people or hide
ourselves away in an ivory tower.
My fellow leaders, have we no eyes and ears?
Can we not see the suffering? Can we not hear the cries
of the poor, the disenfranchised, the disappeared and
the desolate? Can we afford to shirk that
responsibility?
According to the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP), 44 per cent of Latin Americans
live below the poverty line. Although Latin America is
not the only region to face that reality, it is a
particularly conspicuous example because it represents
the laboratory of the neo-liberal project. Structural
adjustment, as prescribed by the Washington
Consensus, came early to Latin America, and its
application here became the model for the neo-
liberalization of the former communist-bloc countries
in the 1990s.
Besides being the initial site of neo-liberalism’s
devastating experiment, Latin America was also the
first to experience anti-neo-liberal explosion. Last
March, UNDP released a report entitled “Democracy in
Latin America”, which highlighted a startling
revelation: more than half of Latin Americans would
prefer dictatorship over democracy if an authoritarian
regime would solve their economic problems.
A second report, released this past August by the
private firm Latinobarómetro, came to a similarly
depressing conclusion — but with one notable
exception: between 1996 and 2004 support for
democracy actually grew in Venezuela, much more so
than in any other country in the region. In Venezuela
support for democracy has undoubtedly increased.
Could it be that there is a direct correlation between
those findings and the fact that Venezuela is actively
pursuing a viable alternative to market democracy?
The Nobel Prize-winning economist, Amartya
Sen, affirms that democracy is the best remedy for
hunger. Indeed, in Venezuela, under the leadership of
President Hugo Chávez Frías, we achieved that goal by
giving power to the poor. To reduce poverty, it is
necessary to increase democracy. There is no other
way. Democracy is also the only way to defeat
terrorism. No matter if poverty and hunger create the
conditions for its existence, there are no “good” and
“bad” terrorists. There is only one terrorism —
reprehensible, detestable and cowardly. But, once
again, only through greater democracy can we defeat it.
What the UNDP report reveals is that Latin
Americans have lost faith in a model of democracy
whose scope is limited to political representation. It is
a model that has entirely ignored the economic, social
and participatory facets of democracy and which has
consequently completely failed to reflect the popular
will. As Simon Bolívar, our visionary liberator,
advocated two centuries ago, the best form of
government is one that provides the highest degree of
happiness, stability and social security for its people.
A few days ago, President Lula of Brazil chaired
a hugely successful meeting of world leaders on the
theme “Action Against Hunger and Poverty”. That
wonderful initiative, co-sponsored by Presidents
Chirac, Lagos Escobar and Rodríguez Zapatero,
expressed our common vision to fight against poverty
and social injustice to guarantee security and
sustainable development in both the North and the
South. Our absolute support for that initiative is
expressed in the document on the subject of ending
poverty and giving power to the poor which we
distributed to Members at the beginning of the General
Assembly session.
To that end we recognize the need to go beyond
the traditional official development assistance
framework. Venezuela’s contribution to the fight
against hunger represents a genuine attempt to place
the tools of development in the hands of those who
need it most. In shifting from food aid to food
45

sovereignty, we are not limiting ourselves to helping to
feed the poor; rather, we are committed to helping the
poor to feed themselves.
For that reason food sovereignty in Venezuela
puts a clear emphasis on assisting small producers
from community-run cooperatives. A far-reaching land
reform has already transferred over 2 million hectares
of land to small producers. We have also made a firm
commitment to create a world seed bank in our country
to protect our heritage of seeds from the violent
encroachments of transgenic and genetically modified
crops.
In addition, we have recently created a Ministry
of Food and Nutrition to guarantee our people their
fundamental rights in that area.
Venezuela ardently supports the initiatives under
way to reform the United Nations. As supporters of
multilateralism and participatory democracy, we claim
a greater participation of the countries of the South at
the United Nations, and particularly in a more
democratic Security Council, one in which there is no
right of veto. In that regard, we support the candidacy
of Brazil as a permanent member of an expanded
Council.
Venezuela aspires to join the Economic and
Social Council for the period 2005-2007. Our presence
in the Economic and Social Council will help the
peoples of the South to promote at the global level the
ideas and social justice we are trying to enact
domestically. To achieve that objective and to attain the
Millennium Development Goals, we believe that the
countries possessing the resources must make a
financial effort commensurate with the challenge.
Venezuela has invested $2 billion in social
programmes this year, and we recently helped establish
a fund of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC) to combat desertification and
drought, which greatly threaten our African brothers.
That assistance from OPEC members reflects our
solidarity with our brothers and sisters in Africa.
Venezuela has already had the opportunity to assist
several African countries through its policy of
cooperation.
The United Nations was born in a world that was
traumatized by the atrocities of Second World War, yet
had the hope of creating a world of greater dignity for
human beings.
Fifty-five years later, when we observe that the
will of the General Assembly is often not respected, it
appears that we have lost our course. Thus, we run the
risk of submerging the world in a war of a thousand
years. It is time to put an end to the hypocrisy that
permits a situation in which some resolutions are
followed while others go unheeded.
Let us have the courage to recover the original
goals of the Assembly. If we are courageous, we will
recognize not only that another world is possible but
that this other world is crucial for humanity.

===== Session 60 - 2005 =====
At the end of the first five years of the third
millennium, this Organization must go through a phase
of maturity after sixty years of life, enough time to
have formed a collective understanding of the major
problems still facing mankind and to find the most
effective ways to address them. Recent facts show that
this is the reality that we shall have to deal with for
some time in the future.
There are many challenges facing the United
Nations, both internal and global problems. By way of
illustration, I should like to refer to two of those
challenges: one internal, namely, the much-needed
democratization of this Organization and the other
external, the problem of poverty, which is the most
important, growing and alarming problem of
36

contemporary society. I should like to invite all
delegations to give these two problems careful thought.
Democracy, at the current stage of human
development, is the highest form of political
organization. Democracy, owing to its very nature and
as a vital condition, implies the equal exercise of rights
as the ideal way to reach the best possible living
conditions. What is valid for one country taken
individually applies even more to organizations in
which many sovereign nations are represented, all with
equal rights.
The United Nations is the most emblematic case
in the modern society of nations. As a result, it should
be the true embodiment and example of the equal
exercise of democratic rights. If we agree on this basic
principle, one question immediately comes to mind: is
this Organization a democratic institution? Are its
practices useful, as we have seen in very recent
decisions adopted by a small number of Members in a
document presented in the first meeting? Is this a
useful example of a transparent democratic exercise on
the part of the sovereign nations represented here?
The answer, regrettably, is a resounding “no”. On
the contrary, what we have seen is a dangerous process
in which oligarchies are being built, where a small
group of countries usurp the right to take decisions
without taking into account the vast majority of
countries that ultimately represent the overwhelming
majority of the global population. This is what usually
happens with matters affecting the fate of billions of
human beings.
For those reasons, when we talk about reform, the
first thing to do is to define the nature of this reform,
which can have no other goal than the democratization
of this Organization. That means giving decision-
making power in fundamental matters to the General
Assembly and ending once and for all the
Organization’s oligarchic and, very often, autocratic
practices, which diminish its authority in the eyes of
the world.
In our humble but firm opinion, this is the major
challenge the Organization faces internally. Its very
existence depends on the successful resolution of this
issue. We have no doubt about that, and let us not
doubt it.
In the external sphere, the most important
challenge lies in the agonizing escalation that daily
traps millions of human beings living in poverty.
Poverty — as we have heard here in many statements —
is the result of an unjust system of distribution of the
earthly goods of men that therefore denies men any
spiritual value. It is an unfair system of distribution
that stems from a distorted matrix whose dominant
force is a ruthless thirst for profit and in which
growing wealth is based on the expansion and
deepening of poverty. This is the reality that we see
day after day, not only, to the surprise of many, in the
so-called poor countries, but also in countries where
opulence is obscenely on display, every second,
through the mass media, attracting millions of people
who are trying to improve their living conditions, only
to crash into a wall raised by those who preach market
freedom and the free movement of capital but who do
not tolerate the movement of human beings except
when they are needed as a labour force to further
expand their wealth.
This is the painful truth that the tragedy of
Katrina has revealed. It is a painful reality that has
profoundly shaken all of those for whom nothing about
human beings is strange, wherever it may occur.
These problems should have become the focal
points of the entire document that was approved in a
strange “consensus” — a word I do not hesitate to
place between quotation marks. Little attention has
been paid to this drama. But the drama is there; it is
boiling across the world. That generates instability,
because if there is one thing that human society is not
made for, it is suicide. It seeks desperate forms of
survival, and that is why, as the great Peruvian Cesar
Vallejo said once, it lights its captive torch and prays
angrily. These are days of suffering but also days of
anger in many parts of the world, and that generates
instability. If we want stability in the world, let us
apply social justice, a new system of distribution
among regions and a new system of solidarity for
distribution within nations that cannot be limited to
charity or assistance often delivered under humiliating
conditions.
There are many ideas that bring us to this
meeting, I am sure. On some of the most important
problems we have already defined our position in
previous statements. We will continue doing so in this
session. For the time being, we would simply add a
basic item: how difficult it is to realize man’s
democratic dream when man finds himself prevented
from satisfying his most basic conditions for a life of
37

dignity: health, nutrition, a roof over his head and the
opportunity to enjoy basic rights.
We trust in the wisdom of the peoples and the
new leadership that through its voice speaks for silent
millions. We trust in the struggle of those who, as the
great Martí said, have thrown in their lot with the poor
of the earth. Thus some day, in the not-so-distant
future, we will find ourselves in a better world, with a
life worth living and a United Nations strengthened by
the essential values of men and women of dignity, who
are the majority on this planet.

===== Session 61 - 2006 =====
First 
I very respectfully invite all those who have not done 
so to read the book that I am holding, one of the most 
recent by Noam Chomsky, who is among the most 
prestigious American and world intellectuals. The 
book, “Hegemony or Survival: America’s Quest for 
Global Dominance”, is an excellent work to help us 
understand what happened in the world of the twentieth 
century and what is happening now, which is the 
greatest threat looming over our planet: the 
hegemonistic claims of American imperialism, which 
threaten the very survival of the human species. We 
continue to warn about this danger and to appeal to the 
people of the United States and the world to halt this 
threat, which is like the sword of Damocles hanging 
over our heads. 
 I had considered reading a chapter from the book, 
but to save time I shall confine myself to a 
recommendation. The book is very good, an easy read. 
I am sure, Madam President, that you are familiar with 
it. It is published in English, German, Russian and 
Arabic. The first people who should read it are our 
brothers and sisters in the United States, because the 
threat is in their own house. The Devil is there; the 
Devil himself is in the house. 
 The Devil came here yesterday, right here. It still 
smells of sulphur today. Yesterday on this rostrum the 
President of the United States, whom I refer to as the 
Devil, talked as if he owned the world. It would be 
appropriate to have a psychiatrist analyse yesterday’s 
address by the President of the United States. As the 
spokesman of imperialism he came to share his 
prescriptions for preserving the current pattern of 
domination, exploitation and pillage of the peoples of 
the world. It was like an Alfred Hitchcock movie. I 
would even propose a title: “The Devil’s Recipe”. 
 As Chomsky says here clearly and in depth, 
American imperialism is doing all it can to consolidate 
its hegemonistic system of domination. We cannot 
allow it to do that. We cannot allow the establishment 
and consolidation of world dictatorship. The address of 
the world tyrant, cynical and full of hypocrisy, shows 
the imperialists’ intention to control everything. They 
say that they want to impose a democratic model, but it 
is the democratic model of their own conception: the 
false democracy of elites, and furthermore an original 
democratic model imposed by bombs, bombardments 
and invasions. What a strange democracy! It would be 
necessary to revise the ideas of Aristotle and the other 
Greek pioneers of democracy in the face of this model, 
imposed by marines, invasions, aggression and bombs. 
 The President of the United States told us 
yesterday in this Hall, “everywhere you turn you hear 
extremists who tell you that you can escape your 
misery and retain your dignity through violence and 
terror and martyrdom.” (see ). Wherever he 
looks he sees extremists, and when he looks at your 
colour, my brother, he thinks “You are an extremist”. 
Mr. Evo Morales Aima, the worthy President of 
Bolivia, looks like an extremist to him. The 
imperialists see extremists everywhere. 
 No, it is not that we are extremists. What is 
happening is that the world is waking up and people 
everywhere are rising up. I tell the world dictator “I 
have a feeling that the rest of your days will be a living 
nightmare, because everywhere you will see us rising 
up against American imperialism, demanding freedom, 
equality of peoples and respect for the sovereignty of 
nations.” Yes, we may be described as extremists, but 
we are rising against the empire, against the model of 
domination. 
 
 
11 06-52879 
 
 The President also said, “I would like to speak 
directly to the people across the … Middle East: my 
country desires peace.” That is true. If we walk through 
the streets of the Bronx, New York, Washington, San 
Diego, California, San Antonio and San Francisco — 
anywhere in the United States — and speak to 
individual citizens, we shall find that the country does 
want peace. The difference is that the Government of 
the United States does not. It wants to impose its 
system of exploitation and pillage and its hegemony 
through war. If it wants peace, what is happening in 
Iraq? What happened in Lebanon and Palestine? What 
has happened over the past hundred years in Latin 
America and in world? Now there are new threats 
against Venezuela and Iran. 
 The President spoke to the people of Lebanon, 
saying “Many of you have seen your homes and 
communities caught in crossfire.” What cynicism! 
What a capacity to lie shamelessly! Was it crossfire 
when bombs were dropped on Beirut with millimetric 
precision? He was thinking of a Western, where men 
shoot from the hip and somebody gets caught in the 
crossfire. This was imperialist fire, fascist fire, the fire 
of an assassin, the genocidal firing of the empire and 
Israel on the innocent people of Palestine and Lebanon. 
That is the truth. 
 Now it is said that we are suffering because we 
see homes destroyed. Early this morning I was looking 
at some statements in preparing my remarks, and I 
have brought with me a document in which I note that 
the President of the United States came to talk to the 
peoples. He said “To the people of Afghanistan”, “To 
the people of Lebanon”, “To the people of Iran”. He 
addressed them all directly. One wonders what those 
peoples would tell him if they were given the 
opportunity. What would they have to say? I know 
what is in the soul of the peoples of the south, the 
oppressed peoples. They would say “Yankee 
imperialist, go home!” That would be the cry of the 
peoples of the world if they could speak with one voice 
to the American imperialists. 
 That is why last year when I came to this Hall, as 
I have been doing for the past eight years, I said 
something that has now been fully confirmed. Hardly 
anybody here can defend the United Nations system. 
Let us be honest and accept that the system born after 
the Second World War has collapsed. It is worthless. It 
is true that it serves to bring us together once a year to 
meet, make statements, prepare long documents, reflect 
and listen to good speeches like those yesterday by 
President Evo and President Lula and the ones we have 
just heard from the President of Sri Lanka and the 
President of Chile. But the Assembly has been turned 
into a merely deliberative organ, with no power to 
make any impact on the terrible situation in the world. 
 That is why Venezuela once again proposes here 
today, 20 September, that we re-establish the United 
Nations. Last year we made four modest proposals that 
we felt were crucially important for discussion by 
heads of State and Government, ambassadors and 
representatives. 
 The first — President Lula said this yesterday — 
is the expansion of both the permanent and non-
permanent membership of the Security Council, with 
developed and under-developed countries of the third 
world as new permanent members. That is the first 
step. 
 Secondly, there must be effective methods to 
address and resolve world conflicts, with transparent 
debate and decision-making. 
 Thirdly, it is essential that, as everyone demands, 
there be an immediate end to the anti-democratic 
mechanism of the veto that is exercised when decisions 
are made in the Security Council. Let me give a recent 
example. The immoral veto of the United States, 
blocking a resolution, allowed the Israeli forces to 
destroy Lebanon with impunity before our very eyes. 
 Fourthly, as we have always said, the role and 
powers of the Secretary-General must be strengthened. 
Yesterday the Secretary-General practically gave us his 
farewell speech. He recognized that in the past 10 
years serious world problems such as hunger, poverty, 
violence and human rights violations had worsened and 
become more complicated. That is a terrible 
consequence of the collapse of the United Nations 
system and American hegemonistic pretensions. 
 A few years ago Venezuela decided to wage this 
battle within the United Nations, recognizing the 
United Nations, as Members, and lending it our voice 
and our thinking. Our voice is an independent one 
representing dignity, the search for truth and the 
reformulation of the international system, with 
denunciation of persecution and of the aggression of 
hegemonistic forces against peoples of the planet. 
 That is how Venezuela, the homeland of Bolivar, 
came to put itself forward for a non-permanent seat on 
  
 
06-52879 12 
 
the Security Council. The United States Government 
launched open, immoral aggression throughout the 
world to try to prevent Venezuela being freely elected 
to a seat on the Security Council. The empire is afraid 
of the truth, of independent voices. It calls us 
extremists, but it is the extremist. 
 I should like to thank all those countries that have 
announced their support for Venezuela even though the 
ballot is secret and there is no need to make an 
announcement. I believe that the open attack by the 
United States empire has increased the support of many 
countries, and that support strengthens the morale of 
Venezuela, our people and Government. Our brothers 
in the Southern Cone Common Market (MERCOSUR), 
for example, have expressed their support as a bloc. 
With Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, as well 
as many other Latin American countries, such as 
Bolivia, Venezuela is now a full member of 
MERCOSUR. The Caribbean Community has 
expressed its support for Venezuela, as has the Arab 
League. I am immensely grateful to our Arab and 
Caribbean brothers. The African Union, almost all of 
Africa, has expressed support for Venezuela, as have 
countries such as Russia, China and many others. 
 On behalf of Venezuela and its people, and of the 
truth, I thank them all most warmly. With a seat on the 
Security Council, Venezuela will make not only its 
voice but that of the third world and all peoples heard 
throughout the world. We will defend dignity and truth. 
 Over and above all this, there are reasons to be 
optimistic — a poet would say “hopelessly optimistic”. 
Beyond the threats, the bombs, the wars, aggression, 
preventive war and the destruction of entire peoples, 
we can see that a new era is dawning. As Silvio 
Rodriguez sings, “the era is giving birth to a heart”. 
New trends are developing, alternative ways of 
thinking, alternative movements. Young people think 
differently. As has been shown in scarcely a decade, 
the idea of the end of history has been shown to be 
totally false, as has that of the Pax Americana and the 
establishment of the capitalist neo-liberal model, which 
creates poverty and is rejected. 
 Now we must define the future of the world. The 
dawn is breaking all over: Latin America, Africa, 
Europe and Oceania. I want to emphasize that 
optimistic vision, so that we may strengthen our will 
and our readiness to fight to save the world and build a 
new and better world. 
 Venezuela joins that struggle, and that is why we 
are threatened. The United States has already planned, 
financed and set in motion a coup in Venezuela, and it 
continues to support coup attempts and terrorism there. 
President Michelle Bachelet Jeria reminded us a short 
time ago of the horrendous assassination of the former 
Chilean Foreign Minister, Orlando Letelier. I would 
simply add that those who perpetrated that crime, in 
which an American citizen also died, are free. And they 
are Americans themselves, CIA terrorists. 
 We should also recall that in a few days there will 
be another anniversary: 30 years will have passed since 
another horrendous terrorist act, the destruction of an 
airliner of Cubana de Aviación in which 73 innocent 
people died. Where is the biggest terrorist of this 
continent, who masterminded the blowing up of the 
plane? He spent a few years in prison in Venezuela, but 
thanks to the CIA and Venezuelan Government 
officials at the time he was able to escape. Now he 
lives in the United States, protected by the 
Government. He confessed and was convicted of his 
crime, but the United States Government has double 
standards and protects terrorism when it wants to. I say 
this to make the point that Venezuela is fully 
committed to combating terrorism and violence, and 
joins those peoples that are fighting for peace and a 
world of equals. 
 I have just spoken of the Cuban airliner. Luis 
Posada Carriles is the name of the terrorist concerned. 
He is protected here, as are very corrupt people who 
have fled Venezuela. A group of terrorists bombed 
various embassies and assassinated people. During the 
attempted coup they kidnapped me and were going to 
shoot me. But God intervened, as did a group of loyal 
soldiers and the people, who took to the streets. So by 
a miracle I am here today. The leaders of that 
attempted coup and those terrorist acts are living in this 
country today, protected by the United States 
Government. I accuse the American Government of 
protecting terrorists and of holding a completely 
cynical discourse. 
 I mentioned Cuba. I was very recently in Havana 
for a few days, and I left it feeling happy because the 
birth of a new era could be seen. The Non-Aligned 
Movement summit adopted a historic final document. 
Do not worry; I shall not read it out. It contains a set of 
resolutions adopted after open and transparent debate. 
More than 50 heads of State attended, and Havana was 
the capital of the south for a week. 
 
 
13 06-52879 
 
 We have now relaunched the Non-Aligned 
Movement. If there is anything I could ask of all those 
here, my partners and brothers and sisters, it is that 
they lend their good will to strengthen the Non-
Aligned Movement, which is important for the birth of 
the new era and the prevention of hegemony and 
imperialism. The Assembly will know that we elected 
President Fidel Castro Chairman of the Non-Aligned 
Movement for the next three years, and we can trust 
him to lead us very efficiently. Those who hoped that 
Fidel would die were disappointed, and they will 
continue to be disappointed, because he is back in his 
olive-green fatigues and is now not only President of 
Cuba but Chairman of the Non-Aligned Movement. A 
very strong movement has been born: that of the South. 
We are men and women of the South. 
 With these documents, ideas, criticisms and 
reflections, I am now closing my file and taking the 
book with me. Do not forget that I recommend it very 
warmly and very humbly to all those present. I have 
tried to put forward ideas to save our planet, to save it 
from the imperialist threat. I hope that in this century, 
in the not too distant future, we shall see our children 
and grandchildren living better, in a world of peace 
based on the fundamental principles of the United 
Nations — a renewed and relocated United Nations. I 
believe that it must move to another country, to a city 
of the South. That is what we in Venezuela have 
proposed. The Assembly knows that my personal 
doctor and chief of security had to stay on a locked 
plane. Neither was allowed to come to the United 
Nations. This abuse we regard as a personal insult by 
the Devil. It smells of sulphur here, but God is with us, 
and I embrace you all. May God bless us all. 

===== Session 62 - 2007 =====
Our people, from the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela, have followed last week’s debate of 
General Assembly. They are a people in the middle of a 
revolution that has succeeded in building new spaces 
for a political culture; a people that is informed and 
educated, that has followed closely the positions put 
forward at this Assembly. We could say that the debate 
has reflected the current situation in the world, a world 
that is struggling to build itself in peace, a world that is 
seeking new directions. 
 A year ago, the President Hugo Chávez Frías 
spoke from this podium to warn the world, to confirm 
the alert of many in the world on the madness, the 
warmongering madness that has been imposed 
alongside the desire for peace, a desire of the majority 
of the world.  
 Today, we can take stock of this warmongering 
madness. Six years ago, through a lie, invasion and 
aggression were sold to a brotherly people, the people 
of Iraq. It was built on the basis of a global campaign, 
a justification for the military occupation of the Arab 
people of Iraq, of the Iraqi nation. 
 Today, five years later, we can see the result of a 
policy filled with hate and evil. From 2002 to 2006 of 
the United States budget, $610 billion have been 
invested in maintaining the war in the Middle East   
$610 billion to bring about death and destruction, $610 
billion that were taken from American taxpayers in 
order to invest in bullets, bombs and death. That $610 
billion invested in war, if it had been invested during 
the past six years that the Iraqi occupation has lasted, 
today could have meant social progress, equality and 
justice for the people of Iraq. 
 But the results are obvious, and clearly visible. 
Research by the world’s universities states that more 
than 600,000 Iraqis have died as a result of the 
invasion and military occupation. More than the 3,600 
young American were sent to their deaths. More than 
25,000 young Americans have now returned to their 
country crippled, blind, deaf or disabled for life. The 
$610 billion invested in death has only multiplied the 
violence, and the result that we see today is that the 
invasion has not led to a safer or more balanced world. 
The result has not been a world at peace. Today, the 
nations of the world must acknowledge that we have a 
world that is less safe, with greater dangers because of 
terrorism. We have an unbalanced Middle East, filled 
with violence and divisions.  
 If that $610 billion invested in war and death in 
Iraq had been invested in life, we would be looking at a 
different situation today. With $610 billion, we could 
build 3 million clinics to provide health services to the 
world, as is done today by the people of Cuba and 
Venezuela through the Bolivarian Alternative for the 
Americas for people throughout Latin America and the 
Caribbean. With the $610 billion invested in war, we 
could build more than 12 million decent homes for 
needy men and women of the three neediest latitudes 
of the world: Africa, Asia, and Latin America and the 
Caribbean. With that $610 billion invested in bullets 
and bombs for the purpose of killing, we could have 
built more than 300,000 schools that would have 
received at least 350 million children and young 
students around the world.  
 But no, madness and greediness for the natural 
resources of the world lead the elites of the United 
States to undertake an absurd and irrational war and to 
bring violence and death to the world. Today, if we 
took stock of the situation, of the direct results of this 
senseless and irrational war, we would have to say that 
this war has led to death, destruction and 
destabilization and has created even more sources of 
terrorism than it has been able to heal. That is why this 
senseless war is the worst example of how the security 
system has functioned to protect balance and peace in 
the world. 
 Today, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela calls 
upon our brothers in the world to think. We must adjust 
the mechanisms to find balance and peace and to stop 
the madness of war.  
 We have seen how in recent days there has been 
an increase in the international media campaign to 
demonize the people and Government of Iran. We have 
seen how dangerously successive threatening 
statements have been made against the peace of the 
people of Iran. Has the world, or have the 
Governments represented in this General Assembly, 
wondered what would happen if the insatiable madness 
of the elite who govern the United States were to lead 
to a dreadful attack on the peaceful people of Iran? 
Where would such a situation lead us? It is time to stop 
that campaign of demonization, to issue warnings, to 
build restraining walls, to call for an end to, and make 
alliances to stop, the belligerent madness of the elite 
who govern the United States of America.  
 Today, the war and the struggle against terrorism 
occupy a very prominent place in the international 
public agenda. From this podium, we would like to 
reiterate to the Government of the United States of 
America the legal request for the terrorist Luis Posada 
Carriles to be extradited, in accordance with 
international law, and to be prosecuted for the crimes 
he committed in Latin America and the Caribbean 
against our peoples. Does this Assembly know that one 
of the most dangerous terrorists, Luis Posada 
Carriles   the head of a terrorist gang, who has been 
convicted of and confessed to crimes committed in 
South America during Operation Condor, who was 
responsible for the disappearance of hundreds of men 
and women, who has been convicted of and confessed 
to having blown up a Cubana Airlines plane in 
Barbados in 1976 and who placed bombs in tourist 
spots in Cuba in the 1990s   is now free in Florida 
and protected by the Government of United States of 
America? Does this Assembly know that this terrorist 
provided his services to the Central Intelligence 
Agency for 40 years?  
 We have asked the Counter-Terrorism Committee 
of the Security Council to examine that matter with all 
due diligence, and we are asking for the support of 
friendly Governments around the world for this 
terrorist to be extradited and prosecuted for having 
blown up a Cubana Airlines plane in Venezuela. This 
two-faced behaviour shows the hypocrisy of a policy 
that fuels war supposedly to combat terrorism but that, 
on its own territory, protects one of the most dangerous 
terrorists that the western hemisphere has ever known.  
 Likewise, we wish to express from this podium 
our solidarity with the growing call by Governments 
and peoples of the world for a fair judgement and the 
immediate release of the five Cubans imprisoned in the 
jails of the empire as part of the war on terror being 
carried out on United States territory. This demand that 
we are making before the General Assembly today is 
part of the flags of struggle that the Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela is raising today. 
 From this podium today, we would like to 
welcome the victory of President Rafael Correa, of the 
progressive forces and of the people of Ecuador in the 
recent elections to designate the Constituent National 
Assembly, which will direct the peaceful process of 
change in Ecuador. This victory in Ecuador is part of a 
group of processes of change that have peacefully and 
democratically paved the way in South America, Latin 
America and the Caribbean, processes of change that 
they tried to stop through campaigns by national 
oligarchies, through international conspiracies and 
through media campaigns. But the voice of the people 
of Ecuador is clear. They have joined the voices of the 
people of Bolivia, Venezuela and Uruguay. South 
America, Latin America and the Caribbean ask, we 
demand that the right to peaceful democratic change in 
our societies be respected. We demand that the right to 
build, through democratic revolution, new processes 
and new economic and social structures be respected, 
making it possible to overcome poverty and to build 
democracies that are truly established by equality. 
 The world knows that there has been an ongoing 
conspiracy against the Venezuelan democracy and 
President Hugo Chávez. The world knows that in 2002 
our people defeated an attempted coup d’état that 
sought the destruction of democracy and the 
assassination of President Chávez.  
 Today, the people of Venezuela are in the midst of 
a thorough reform of the Constitution. In December, 
the people of Venezuela, following a debate on terms 
and proposals related to constitutional reform, will go 
to the polls to decide in a sovereign manner what our 
country’s future should be and what reforms we should 
undertake to expand the foundations of political, social 
and economic democracy. Today, we reaffirm to the 
world that we want respect for Venezuela’s sovereignty 
and independence and an end to imperialist-led media 
campaigns that try to distort the real conditions of 
democracy building by our people and by our popular 
revolution.  
 Today, we reaffirm the need for deep-seated and 
comprehensive reform of the United Nations. A new, 
multipolar world of equilibrium, without imperialistic 
hegemony, is necessary, urgent and possible. We have 
joined the debate on United Nations reform. We 
believe that the Organization must be reworked. We 
believe that the Organization must rebuild itself so that 
it can faithfully serve a multipolar world, a world of 
equilibrium, a world of peace, a world without 
hegemony. Seventeen years of a unipolar world has 
shown us the need for a deep-seated transformation of 
multilateral organizations so that they can be placed at 
the service of peace, equality, justice and the great 
causes of humanity.  
 Today, we reaffirm our conviction that the 
Organization must be thoroughly reworked and must 
move forward by democratizing the Security Council, 
expanding both its permanent and its non-permanent 
membership; by establishing new functions for the 
General Assembly; and by strengthening the political 
role of the Secretary-General. 
 Finally, let us move forward with new 
mechanisms for dialogue, coexistence and the building 
of a multipolar world where we can all be equal   a 
world where our peoples can see themselves as equal 
partners in a global cooperative undertaking to build 
the foundations of peace and justice, to overcome the 
insanity of war and to be able to thwart the desire of 
the world’s elites to take control of the natural 
resources and wealth of our people. 
 The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela reaffirms 
its will to move forward together with the peoples of 
the world in a thorough reform that will transform the 
United Nations into a new Organization   a genuine 
instrument for peace, life and development. 


===== Session 63 - 2008 =====
For Venezuelans, Latin 
Americans and Caribbeans, it is an honour, Sir, to have 
you as President of the General Assembly at this 
session. No one is a more authentic Christian than a 
progressive Christian. It is a risky position and one 
which requires sacrifice for a person like yourself, 
whose life has been a testament to his lofty values. 
Indeed, this criterion is valid for Muslims, Jews, 
Buddhists, animists, Hindus, atheists, and so on if their 
lives are a testament to their respective ethical 
obligations. 
 There is another religion whose adherents and 
priests preach from their temples. It is the religion of 
neoliberalism, whose god is the market. 
 A few years ago, a well-known academic, 
captivated by his own materialistic image, announced 
the end of history, claiming that we had reached not the 
fountain of eternal youth but the secret to eternal 
prosperity. Today, prompted by the sixtieth anniversary 
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we 
qualify that thought as a curse that reflects the 
insensitivity of the most egotistical and corrupt. 
 At the time of the French Revolution someone 
said “Freedom, how many crimes are committed in 
your name?” These days we could say “Free market, 
  
 
08-53141 22 
 
how much poverty, how much violence, how much 
torture, how many wars, how many invasions, how 
much oppression, how much social injustice is 
committed in your name?” We are, therefore, 
sympathetic with President Nicolas Sarkozy’s peace 
initiatives and his appropriate ideas about a regulated 
capitalism and a summit of countries affected by the 
financial crisis. 
 Accustomed as we were to suffering the perverse 
effects of the brutal application of neoliberal policies, 
today we see the pain, anguish and anger of millions of 
our brothers in the United States. They have been 
swindled by upper-class criminals, an experience that 
we Venezuelans know well. 
 Since memory is fragile and the neoliberal global 
dictatorship uses private communications media to hide 
its crimes, allow me to recount a terrible event that 
occurred in the country that was the first lab rat for the 
most radical formula from Wall Street and the 
International Monetary Fund. I am speaking of my 
country, Venezuela. 
 In only two days, in February 1989, a 
spontaneous people’s rebellion was mercilessly 
crushed. It was a protest against the application, 
without anaesthesia, of the magic formulas that the 
great financial centres imposed on us. Several 
non-governmental human rights organizations at the 
time registered thousands of deaths, but the official 
statistics recognized only 259 dead, without 
mentioning those who were injured or material 
damage — only 259 dead in two days. 
 As a diplomat in those terrible days, I assumed 
that there would be complaints and condemnations 
from friendly Governments with good human-rights 
track records. Nothing of the sort happened. Venezuela 
was the pet project of Latin American democracies 
and, at the same time, a neoliberal laboratory whose 
failure had to be kept secret. The media accomplices of 
yesterday that kept these crimes secret are the same 
that today slander the democratic, peaceful, socialist 
revolutionary Venezuelan process led by President 
Hugo Chávez. 
 In Venezuela we practice extreme democracy: 
extreme freedom of expression, extreme participation, 
extreme challenge to the neoliberal monster and 
extreme commitment to social justice, hence the 
international media campaign to attempt to slander and 
stifle democracy in Venezuela. The instruments of that 
campaign have a name: the Fox network in the United 
States, the Grupo de Diarios de América, the Inter 
American Press Association, the neocolonialist group 
Promotora de Informaciones, S.A., the El Pais daily, 
the Cadena de Ondas Populares de España (COPE) 
radio network of the blessed Catholic Bishops’ 
Conference of Spain, the El Mercurio daily in Chile, 
the El Universal daily in Mexico, the pro-coup 
Venezuelan television station Globovision, and many 
other lackeys of the international far right. 
 That brings to mind a topic that no one talks 
about. Some people think that Nelson Mandela did 
away with apartheid. In the United States, the people 
we see on the television screens are like the people we 
see in the streets. Not so in Latin America, in 
Venezuela and in multi-ethnic Latin American 
countries. On their televisions we do not see people of 
mixed races, nor indigenous people, nor Afro-Latin 
Americans unless they are playing the role of the 
servants. Hence the racist hatred against the indigenous 
majority in Bolivia. Racism is the most perverse form 
of discrimination. In the worst dictatorships and under 
persecution, it is possible to hide one’s thoughts, faith 
and political affiliation. But what one can never hide is 
the colour of one’s skin. 
 Democracy, international social justice and peace 
cannot survive under the schemes of unilateralism and 
the muscular exercises of hegemonic powers. Dissent 
should not be punished but rather recognized as an 
expression of democratic and pacifist values. 
Appreciation of and respect for those who are different 
is a guarantee of the fulfilment of the principles 
enshrined in the United Nations Charter. Democracy 
and peace should stem from creativity and the 
confidence generated by the variety of ideas, colours, 
interests and proposals. 
 Progressive democracy has burgeoned in Latin 
America and the Caribbean, particularly within the past 
10 years, just as the continent has been undergoing 
profound social change. Long ago, during the sixties 
and seventies, the magic solution to attain the complete 
democracy and social progress that some preached was 
through free and transparent elections, although in 
certain select circumstances the elections were neither 
very democratic nor very transparent. Nevertheless, 
they were welcomed into the so-called democratic 
club, since they adhered to unspoken patterns of 
political behaviour dictated by the global metropolis. 
 
 
23 08-53141 
 
 It is a fact that today in Latin America elections 
are more participatory, more transparent and freer than 
ever. Nevertheless, the results are not welcomed when 
the winners have previously been labelled as villains 
by the imperial super-Power. 
 The spectre of progressive democracy is lying in 
wait for the continent of social injustice. People are 
deciding their own destiny, as they should. But they are 
making this choice with a clear preference for leftist 
movements that offer a response to their circumstances. 
That does not suit the far right, which is no lover of 
democracy, as much as it claims to be. 
 That reminds me to some extent of Henry Ford, 
when he spoke of his great success in selling the 
Model T. He said “Any customer can have a car 
painted any colour that he wants so long as it is black”. 
Something similar is happening with the super-Power 
and its partners on our continent. Anyone who wins 
free and transparent elections monitored by credible 
international observers is accepted, provided that 
person is right-wing. 
 Dissent is not accepted by some people in the 
global village. The new movements, which are 
supported by the majority of those who are excluded, 
are not welcome. The magnates of private media are 
themselves a threat to democracy and freedom, 
aligning themselves with the interests they serve, while 
poisoning the collective psyche of the more timid 
groups in society. 
 Concerted efforts to undermine legitimate 
institutions are being launched and consolidated under 
fundamentalist doctrines. New witch hunts identify that 
phenomenon, and the fundamentalists of the right are 
embarking on well-coordinated and well-financed 
ventures while continuing to sign off on huge corporate 
deals. Such is the case with the Halliburton company, 
whose balance sheets are spattered with Arab and 
American blood. All the while, Al Qaeda is bigger than 
ever, and the weapons of mass destruction have still 
not been found. 
 Homegrown right-wing and racist forces, 
emboldened by foreign support, do not recognize the 
legitimacy of new or renewed institutions and cause 
political and social instability and separatism. Look at 
Bolivia. In Ecuador, those groups will not accept the 
overwhelming popular support provided yesterday to 
President Correa’s draft constitution, so we will have 
to invite him to come in and join the axis of evil. 
 In any case, there is not much to worry about 
when it comes to the leftist democracies. They are very 
modern, in the sense that they do not have religious or 
gender police, while on the other hand they are 
antiquated democracies, where those who gain the 
most votes come in first and are elected. 
 The drama of poverty, social exclusion and 
uneven distribution of income still tyrannizes our 
countries. The current model of development is not 
sustainable. It endangers life, the planet and peace. As 
long as there is still hunger, our democracies and our 
environment are threatened. The time for profound and 
demanding changes has come. Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon, in his address to this Assembly at its 5th 
meeting, referred to the need for a new understanding 
on business ethics, with more compassion and less 
unconditional faith in the magic of the markets. Greed 
and consumerism have brought about climate change, 
the energy crisis, financial chaos and the food crisis. 
 The world food crisis continues to expand. Food 
has become just a form of merchandise used to 
maximize profits, with the human right to food 
ignored. According to the statistics of the Food and 
Agriculture Organization, global food production has 
consistently exceeded global population growth. That 
means that sufficient food is produced in the world to 
provide more than 2,800 calories every day to each of 
the world’s inhabitants. Close to 18 per cent more 
calories are produced per person than was the case in 
the 1960s, despite the increase in the total population. 
If sufficient food is produced in the world, how can we 
explain the fact that more than 850 million people now 
suffer from hunger or malnutrition, that 25,000 people 
die from hunger every day and that 18,000 of those are 
children?  
 The Secretary-General has stated that 
development is in a state of emergency, and he 
continues to appeal for progress on the Millennium 
Development Goals. 
 Venezuela promotes policies for social inclusion, 
public policies to ensure everyone’s rights. In order to 
build a new model for development on the basis of 
solidarity, social justice, equity, cooperation, respect 
for human rights and the participation of the people, 
Venezuela has a comprehensive social development 
policy based on the human being. The foundation of 
that policy is social missions undertaken through wide-
ranging and free social and economic programmes to 
  
 
08-53141 24 
 
reach out to all sectors of society, with a particular 
emphasis on the most vulnerable, in order to guarantee 
the social and economic rights of our people in peace 
and democracy. 
 With great satisfaction and humility, our country 
can share with the Assembly the progress we have 
achieved in implementing the Millennium 
Development Goals. The number of people in extreme 
poverty has dropped in our country, and there has been 
an increase of 10.8 per cent in primary school 
attendance. Unemployment has dropped from 23 per 
cent to 7 per cent. In recent years, gross domestic 
product expenditures on health have increased by 57.1 
per cent. We provide total coverage to those suffering 
from AIDS. The proportion of the population with 
access to drinking water has increased from 80 per cent 
in 1998 to 95 per cent in 2007. During the period from 
1996 to 2007, infant mortality dropped from 23.4 to 
13.4 per 1,000 live births. 
 Venezuela has made major contributions to 
efforts for cooperation and complementarity between 
the countries of the South. The Bolivarian Alternative 
for the Americas (ALBA), which was established by 
Bolivia, Cuba, Nicaragua, Dominica, Honduras and 
Venezuela, is an initiative that brings together the 
abilities and strengths of its members to bring about 
structural change and the relationships necessary to 
achieve development and continue to exist as sovereign 
and just nations. 
 Petrocaribe is an energy cooperation agreement 
proposed by the Government of Bolivia to resolve the 
asymmetries in the region between energy producers 
and consumers by means of a new, equitable and just 
system of trade between the countries of the Caribbean 
region. 
 The Union of South American Nations 
(UNASUR) is an ongoing political endeavour, which, 
in its short existence, has shown that it is politically 
effective and respects the sovereignty of peoples. It has 
arrived at common positions on projects in the fields of 
energy, social affairs, finance, education, 
infrastructure, dispute resolution and defence, and has 
gone beyond mere talk to become part of daily life of 
the citizens of South America. The recent unanimous 
support of President Evo Morales and democracy in 
Bolivia is a good example of that. 
 The President of the General Assembly, 
Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann, stated that more than 
a half of the peoples of the Earth languish in hunger 
and poverty while ever-increasing amounts of money 
are wasted on arms, wars, luxury items and totally 
superfluous and unnecessary goods. 
 That addiction to war is the only thing that can 
explain the fact that, after the collapse of the Soviet 
Union, war-loving countries and alliances continued to 
chip away, day after day, at Russian democracy and to 
intrigue in the region against Moscow instead of 
abandoning their threats of war and trying to resolve 
the lack of trust that is the source of conflict and 
violence. It is a disgraceful situation that has not 
wanted for ignorant cowboys who think they are 
heroes. The Russian bear is awakening from its 
hibernation. 
 How many human lives have we lost among 
Iraqis, Americans, Latin Americans, Europeans, Asians 
and Africans? And how many lives could we save if the 
resources devoted to war and to the recovery of 
financial institutions were devoted instead to social 
investment? 
 The reform process requires the adoption of 
measures to strengthen the authority of the General 
Assembly, including on matters of international peace 
and security, given that it is the principal deliberating, 
participatory and democratic body of the Organization. 
Venezuela supports the expansion of both the 
permanent and non-permanent membership of the 
Security Council, the abolishment of the 
antidemocratic post-war mechanism of the veto and the 
improvement of the Council’s working methods, so 
that it may be more transparent and accessible and so 
that never again will anyone resort to lying to the 
Council. 
 We must remain vigilant to ensure that the 
Human Rights Council continues to operate on the 
basis of principles of impartiality, objectivity and 
non-selectivity without stigmatizing anyone and to 
promote constructive dialogue, without diversions 
about certification, cooperation without preconditions 
or vetoes, and respect for the particular circumstances 
of nations and regions, as well as for our diverse 
historical, cultural and religious pasts. 
 We reject racist, xenophobic and discriminatory 
measures that clearly deny the human rights that 
should apply universally to all, including migrants. 
Criminalizing migrants and their families violates their 
fundamental rights. Measures such as the Return 
 
 
25 08-53141 
 
Directive approved by the European Parliament incite 
racism, xenophobia and other forms of discrimination 
and intolerance. That is incompatible with the defence, 
promotion and protection of human rights, democracy 
and the rule of law. We prefer a Europe of light, 
integration and reconciliation to a Europe of shadows. 
 We know that we are not at the end of history; we 
are not even at the beginning of the end of history. 
What we do know is that we are apparently at the close 
of a chapter of history, at the end of a neoliberal 
nightmare in which unbridled capitalism — as John 
Paul II described it — social violence and the 
persistent worldwide violation of all human rights 
prevailed. 
 This afternoon, the House of Representatives of 
the United States of America took an historic decision 
whose effects will be felt throughout the world in the 
times to come. Very soon next year, we hope to be able 
to say that the worst has past and that the perverse 
effects of the religion of the market will be replaced, 
God willing, on the global level, allowing us to move 
towards democracy, progress and social justice, 
ensuring peace among nations — among nations that 
are free and stand together, among nations that are 
united. 

===== Session 64 - 2009 =====
I greet all the citizens of the world who have come 
here — as they do every year — for this gathering of 
such great importance for the world. I am very pleased 
to be back in New York and at the United Nations 
following a few years’ absence. I am very grateful for 
all the cooperation and the manner in which our 
delegation has been received.  
 Last night we visited Lincoln Center to see a film 
made by Oliver Stone during the past year. The title of 
the film already stirs your thoughts. It is called “South 
of the Border”. In this film, you can see President Evo 
Morales chewing coca leaves, together with Oliver 
Stone. And, as President Morales says, coca is not the 
same as cocaine. You can see Cristina, the President of 
Argentina, and the automobile of General Perón. You 
can hear what she has to say about events in South 
America, in Latin America. And you can see Lula, the 
President of Brazil, in the Guajira region of Venezuela, 
working with us to help the indigenous peoples, who 
were exploited for centuries, through core industrial 
projects. You will see President Fernando Lugo, a 
bishop and liberation theologian, living today in the 
residence occupied for many years by Stroessner. And 
you can see how a bishop became a president.  
 You can also see Rafael Correa, the President of 
Ecuador, in Havana with President Raúl Castro. You 
can see Fidel. You can even see Obama, in Trinidad, 
chatting with a group of us, with his hand held out to 
us and an open smile. 
 I think it is an interesting film, one of the many 
made by this great filmmaker of the United States, 
Oliver Stone. He had already made two films about 
Fidel, “Looking for Fidel” and “El Comandante”. 
There is a lot in this film, many messages that could 
help us to decipher the enigmas of the times in which 
we live.  
 We stayed behind after the film was over last 
night, chatting with a group of people from the United 
States and other parts of the world. And this contact 
was very instructive and very symptomatic of the 
importance of what Fidel calls “the battle of ideas”. A 
lady in her fifties came up to me and said “I am very 
happy”. She was a North American, very white; a 
typical United States citizen, born in this country, but 
she spoke some Spanish. She told me, “I am very 
  
 
09-52425 2 
 
happy”. And I asked her why. “Because, now having 
seen this movie, I realize what you are. I thought you 
were a very bad person”.  
 This person was a victim of the hostile media 
bombardment, the ideological bombardment, of the 
United States and of the entire world, whose aim is to 
turn reality inside out and to turn the world upside 
down, as Eduardo Galeano put it. 
 The film is called “South of the Border” and I am 
taking advantage of this opportunity and that title to 
tell you that, south of the border, a revolution is under 
way. A revolution is under way in South America. A 
revolution is under way in Latin America. There is a 
revolution in the Caribbean. The world must see this, it 
must truly realize this and accept it, because it is a 
reality and it is not going to change. What is more, this 
is a revolution that goes beyond ideology. It is a 
geographical and geopolitical revolution. It is a historic 
revolution; it is part of our times. It has very deep 
roots. It is a total, moral and spiritual revolution. And 
we believe that it is a necessary revolution. This 
revolution is great in both spirit and magnitude, and it 
is going to keep growing as the days, months and years 
go by. And why is it great? It is great because it has 
been a long time coming: centuries of history have led 
up to this moment in time. It is great in terms of the 
space that it covers. 
 I am not going to speak any longer than  
Mr. Al-Qadhafi. Al-Qadhafi has said everything there 
is to say. This applause is for Al-Qadhafi and his 
speech. But nor will I speak any less than Mr. Obama, 
or Lula.  
 I was explaining why this revolution is great. 
First, because of time, the accumulated time that has 
gone by. It is centuries, centuries of battles, of 
struggles, of hopes, of suffering of millions and 
millions of human beings in Latin America and the 
Caribbean. This revolution is great in the area it 
covers. This revolution is great in the depth of its 
foundations. This revolution is great in the masses of 
people that are joining it. No one seeks to slow it down 
and no one will be able to. 
 Yesterday, it was said by President Morales here 
(see ), by this great companion and 
indigenous leader of the Aymara, Evo Morales. He also 
said it in the film, which you should not miss, “South 
of the Border”. Oliver Stone told me last night that 
pressure is already being exerted to prevent the 
American people from seeing it. Where is their 
freedom of expression? It is just a movie. How can 
they be afraid of a movie? But there is already pressure 
from the monopolies that run the film industry, that 
operate the theatres — these are all monopolies and 
they are putting on pressure. But the movie will be 
shown elsewhere. Fortunately, we are in the age of 
computers and telecommunications. We no longer 
depend on movie theatres run by monopolies.  
 In the film, Evo, speaking with Oliver Stone, 
recalls a phrase pronounced by a great leader of the 
Aymara, an ancestor of his who was murdered, just one 
of the many millions that were murdered by the 
Spanish, Portuguese and English invasion, by the 
European invasion of our continent. I know that all 
present are aware that when the European ships arrived 
at the American shores there were approximately 
90 million indigenous people living here.  
 Two hundred years later only four million 
survived. This is one of the greatest genocides in 
history — the genocide of the continent itself, of the 
Abya Yala, as our indigenous people call it. So Evo in 
the movie repeats the sentence uttered by this great 
Aymara leader, who was drawn and quartered — he 
was tied to four horses by the arms and legs and he was 
torn apart, and as he died the Indian uttered a 
prophesy: “Today I die,” said Túpac Katari, “today I 
die, but one day I will return as millions.” Túpac Katari 
has returned, and we are millions. We are millions. 
 Nothing and no one can hold back the great South 
American, Latin American, Caribbean revolution. And 
I think the world should support it. The United States 
should support it. Europe should support it, because 
this revolution — some brothers and sisters may not 
have noticed — is the start of the road to salvation for 
this planet, and to salvation for the human race, 
threatened as it is by capitalism, imperialism, hunger 
and war. This is the necessary revolution. For centuries 
this has been called “the New World”. Now we can 
truly call it “a new world”. 
 Years ago — as we recalled last night — I was 
invited to a conversation — a large group of important 
leaders. They were important in their own right. They 
were trade union leaders here in the United States. 
Some workers were complaining about a biscuit 
factory that was not paying them. They were striking, 
and one of them asked me, “Why don’t you buy that 
factory?” And I said, “I’ll see. Maybe we can make it a 
 
 
3 09-52425 
 
socialist biscuit factory, if Obama gives me permission. 
Maybe we could do that — buy it, give it to the 
workers, let them make the crackers and distribute 
them. Why should there just be one or two capitalists 
exploiting a lot of people?” That is socialism and that 
is the path to salvation for this planet. 
 Yesterday a journalist asked me — after the 
movie there was forum at which he asked me — “Do 
you defend socialism even though the Soviet Union 
failed?” The reply is very simple. The Soviet Union 
lost its way early on. There was never real socialism in 
the Soviet Union. But this century, the twenty-first 
century, will be the century of socialism — the 
socialism of the human race.  
 I’m sure everyone listening to me has read 
Einstein. Albert Einstein convinced the American 
President to build the atomic bomb — to begin the 
research before the Nazis did. Then later he regretted 
what he had done when he saw the disaster of 
Hiroshima and the disaster of Nagasaki. But Albert 
Einstein, after all his years of study, the great scientist, 
among the greatest scientists ever to have walked the 
Earth, came to the conclusion — and this is written in 
his own hand — “Why socialism?” Einstein came to 
the conclusion that the only way for the human race to 
live on this planet is socialism. Capitalism is the road 
to extinction of the human species. We as a species 
have only been around for what? This is Castro 
territory, he knows these figures. But, whereas life first 
appeared here at least three billion years ago, we the 
human species only appeared maybe less than 300,000 
years ago, hardly 0.01 per cent of the time that life has 
existed on this planet. So we appear after so long and 
we’re going to wipe out life on this planet? 
 We’ve heard it from everybody — Obama, Lula, 
Cristina Fernández, Al-Qadhafi, Sarkozy — everyone 
said the same thing. They have all clamoured for 
change. And what is the change? Capitalism allows no 
change. Let us not fool ourselves. It’s only through 
socialism that we can bring about genuine change. And 
the revolution in Latin America has it all and it has a 
strong socialist element. As Mariátequi, the great 
Peruvian thinker said, it is an Indian-American 
socialism. It is our own socialism. It is a Bolivarian 
socialism. It is a José Martí socialism. It is a new 
socialism. It has not been copied from anybody else. 
There are no manuals for socialism, said Mariátequi. It 
is a heroic creation that has to be constantly reinvented. 
 Yesterday we were remembering what a North 
American President, that is to say a United States 
President, said shortly before he was assassinated, and 
this is on the record, in a speech before the United 
States Congress. John Kennedy spoke of a revolution 
in the South, saying that the principal cause was 
hunger. Only a few days later he was assassinated. 
John Kennedy was not a revolutionary, but he was an 
intelligent man, just as I think President Obama is an 
intelligent man. And I hope God protects Obama from 
the bullets that killed Kennedy. I hope Obama will be 
able to look and see — genuinely see — what has to be 
seen. It does not smell of sulphur here anymore. That 
smell has gone. It smells of something else — it smells 
of hope. And you have to have hope in your heart and 
believe in the hope.  
 We cannot destroy this planet. What about our 
children? What about future generations? Come, let’s 
take on the challenge. Lula was saying yesterday that 
there was no political will. Those words were whips. I 
know Lula’s will. I am deeply aware of his humane 
attitude. He is a true brother of mine, and he was right 
to say what he said. But I would not exactly say that 
there is no political will. I would say rather that some 
political will is lacking, because Lula has it and we 
have it, but it has to be increased. It has to continue to 
grow in the leaders, in society, among the people, 
among the youth — particularly in the hearts of the 
young — and the workers, everywhere in the world.  
 Kennedy said it: there is a revolution in the 
South. And he added, “Those who make peaceful 
revolution impossible will make violent revolution 
inevitable”. Jack Kennedy said that. You can find it on 
the Internet; you can find everything on the Internet. 
 My dear Maria Fernanda Espinosa, once 
ambassador from fraternal Ecuador, whom I have not 
seen for days. We’d like to say hello to President 
Correa. The ambassador was Minister for Foreign 
Affairs at the beginning of the citizens’ revolution, 
with Correa leading the people of Ecuador, the people 
of Manuela Saenz and Bolivar and Eloy Alfaro, the 
noble and great people in Bolivia and that whole area. 
 Some are trying to block the path to our peaceful 
revolution. And there’s another brave woman, Patricia 
Rodas, the Foreign Minister of Honduras; please, a 
hand for this brave Central American woman, from the 
people of Morazán. Long live Honduras! Long live 
Morazán! And long live the dignity of the people!  
  
 
09-52425 4 
 
 At 1 p.m. exactly, I was jotting down these 
notes — I don’t have much farther to go, Mr. President; 
don’t anybody throw a shoe at me. The Cuban Minister 
has taken off his shoe to throw it at me. He had some 
rubber shoes — if you are going to throw me a shoe, 
throw one of those. I spoke to Manuel Zelaya at 1 p.m. 
sharp; I remember it was 1 p.m. sharp — we started at 
1 and finished at 1.13. 
 While we are here, comrades of the world, there 
is a President, firm, dignified, who with a small group 
of people, almost martyrs, was able to escape those 
trying to carry out a coup d’état. The perpetrators of 
the coup had brought repression to the Plaza Morazán 
in Tegucigalpa and had taken every single road. They 
had an entire army; it was as if they had invaded 
Honduras with their own army — what an indignity. 
From here I make an appeal — I, who am a 
revolutionary soldier — to the soldiers of Honduras, to 
the sons of Morazán to not continue to repress an 
innocent people. 
 While we are here, Manuel Zelaya, the President 
of Honduras, is in the Brazilian embassy, which has 
given him refuge. According to what the President has 
told me, there are more than 200 soldiers surrounding 
the embassy in the most brutal fashion. Were they 
trying to go back to the Stone Age? It will not work. Is 
that what the perpetrators of the coup d’état had in 
mind? They will be swept away by the wind of the new 
age. The coup cannot succeed, these regressive forces 
cannot have their way, not in Honduras, not in any of 
the countries of the Americas. These people have been 
out in the streets for 90 days, resisting, resisting, 
resisting. 
 So, there we have a President, firm in his 
conviction, with a group of compatriots, with his wife, 
the First Lady. Apparently they are not letting food 
through; the water is cut off every now and then. 
Luckily there is a cistern with water. This morning they 
were able to get some of the most up-to-date telephone 
interception equipment, which the President told me is 
an Israeli brand. Israel has recognized the coup d’état 
Government; I think it is the only country in the world 
that has. They have all kinds of equipment to block 
signals and jam communications, and they are also 
trying to create panic among the few people inside the 
Brazilian embassy, threatening them with incursion 
into the embassy. Does the Assembly realize how 
retrograde this is? It is like some kind of trolls or dark 
giants or magicians, something from the age of the 
cavemen. But they will not return. 
 The people are in the street, protesting. The 
airport is closed now. Who is behind the coup d’état? It 
is the Honduran bourgeoisie; the State is taken over by 
the bourgeoisie, by the rich. Four or five wealthy, 
powerful families own the State. I think we have to 
pull out our copies of Lenin, his State and Revolution, 
where he talks about the bourgeois State, the control of 
everything by the bourgeois State including the 
national congress, the judiciary, the army. 
 The people are in the street, but they are being 
fired on. Yesterday the President told me that he knows 
of at least three people in the vicinity of the Brazilian 
embassy who were killed. And the President is asking 
for dialogue, so as to return to the road to democracy. 
So let us send the expression of our strongest solidarity 
to the people of Honduras and President Zelaya, and let 
us ask that the United Nations resolution be complied 
with, and the resolution of the Organization of 
American States. 
 The United States Government — and this is 
strange — has not recognized that a military coup 
d’état has occurred. President Zelaya told me today 
that there is some friction between the State 
Department and the Pentagon. Yesterday I was reading 
Pentagonism, a book by the great Dominican author 
Juan Bosch, who was overthrown by imperialism. The 
Pentagon is the imperial cave. They do not want 
Obama. They do not want change. They want to 
dominate the world with their military bases, with all 
their threats, their bombs, their soldiers and bases. 
 The Pentagon is behind the coup in Honduras. 
President Zelaya was dragged out of his home, out of 
his bed, at dawn on 28 June, taken to a plane, bundled 
up by Honduran soldiers under command from the 
United States base there, in Palmerola. The plane took 
off from Tegucigalpa and landed at the Palmerola base. 
They held the Honduran President there for some time. 
Then they decided to take him to Costa Rica. The 
American military in Honduras knew about the coup; 
they supported it. They supported the Honduran 
military. Hence the contradictions that Obama has to 
face. 
 At times we wonder if are there two Obamas — 
the one who spoke here yesterday and the other — a 
double? The one who supports, or allows his military 
to support, the coup on Honduras? I want to present 
 
 
5 09-52425 
 
this question for thought. Is there one Obama, or are 
there two? Let us hope the one we heard yesterday will 
prevail. That is what the world needs; that is what the 
world is calling for. 
 What is the backdrop of the coup in Honduras? It 
has to do with everything we are talking about here — 
it is the revolution of the South. It is not the kind of 
revolution where there are columns of guerrillas, 
heroes such as in the Sierra Maestra, heroes of the high 
mountains of Bolivia, where Ernesto Che Guevara was. 
 But this is not that kind of revolution. This 
revolution is different. It does not break out in the 
mountains with guerrilla groups. No, it starts in the 
towns among the masses. It is a mass revolution, but it 
is peaceful and wants to remain peaceful. It is 
democratic, deeply democratic. 
 Do not be afraid of democracy. Here, I am 
paraphrasing Noam Chomsky in another wonderful 
work that I did not know until I obtained the book in 
Madrid a few days ago. I went to visit my friend, the 
King of Spain, mainly because an Ibero-American 
summit was coming up in Portugal, and I said that I 
would go if he did not tell me to shut up. He told me 
that he would not. So, I am going. King Juan Carlos 
and I are great friends. I went to a recommended 
bookshop — La Casa del Libro — in Madrid, and I got 
Chomsky’s book Fear of Democracy. We should all 
read that book, Fear of Democracy.  
 The elite are afraid of the people. They are afraid 
of true democracy, which Abraham Lincoln, another 
martyr, defined very clearly in three ideas: democracy 
is government of the people, by the people and for the 
people. It is not government of the bourgeoisie or of 
the elite when the people rise up and the thugs are 
pushed out. That happened in Honduras, and in 
Venezuela in 2002. It happened in Brazil with João 
Goulart, and in the Dominican Republic. Why were the 
peoples of Latin America and of the Caribbean not 
allowed to build their own future in the twentieth 
century? They did not let them.  
 This century is ours. This century, in Latin 
America and in the Caribbean we will build our own 
way and no one can stop it. No one can stop it. 
Imperialism must end. At times, one wonders. I was 
once asking Lula what America, our Latin America, 
would be today if the Governments of the United States 
had not dug their claws into our America to impose a 
model by violently cutting off the hope and the 
struggle of millions of people, extinguishing the dawn. 
 I was born in 1954. Fidel was already in prison, 
and they were dropping bombs in Guatemala. They 
invaded the Guatemala of Jacobo Árbenz Guzmán; and 
then the Bay of Pigs, although they failed there; then 
this revolutionary Cuba — admirable, but blockaded.  
 I call on Obama to lift the blockade on Cuba. 
What is he waiting for? Let him do what he says. Or 
are there two Obamas? Yesterday, Obama said, and I 
noted it — here, I noted down Lula, who spoke before 
Obama, and then I noted Obama’s words — that a 
political system cannot be imposed on any people and 
that each people and its sovereignty must be respected. 
Then what is President Obama waiting for to order the 
lifting of the brutal and murderous blockade on Cuba? 
Does anyone have doubts about that? Does anyone 
think that it is rhetorical? No. There is persecution 
against businesses in any part of the world that provide 
even food to Cuba, and now also to Venezuela.  
 Not long ago, Fidel Castro mentioned in one of 
his reflections that a company known throughout the 
world that manufactures and supplies medical 
equipment did not meet its obligations to the 
Governments of Cuba or of Venezuela this past year or 
the one before. They did not send the spare parts for 
hundreds of pieces of medical equipment that the two 
Governments had bought to bring free quality health 
care to our peoples. These include 64-row CT scanners 
and electrocardiogram machines that are now in the 
poor areas of Caracas. Where the indigenous people 
live, there are medical facilities. We have 30,000 
Cuban doctors there and a free, good health-care 
system for the people. We tried to quietly find solutions 
with the company — Philips — but the company has 
refused to send the spare parts for that high-tech 
equipment. Why? Under pressure from whom? From 
the Government of the United States? Is it this Obama 
or another Obama? Is it Obama one or Obama two? 
Who are you, Obama? Who are you? I want to believe 
in yesterday’s Obama, whom I saw here, but these 
things keep happening, and they affect the lives of 
millions of human beings. Why? In whose name? Why 
does the United States continue to do that? 
 It is fear of democracy, just as happened in 
Honduras. It is the fear of the Bolivarian Alliance for 
the Americas that rises up as a new and innovative 
mechanism of solidarity, and we have brought into line 
  
 
09-52425 6 
 
the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of our Americas 
and the Governments and the countries of Cuba, 
Nicaragua, Honduras, Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, 
Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica and Saint Vincent and 
the Grenadines. They attack us and try to stop us, but 
they will not succeed. The Common Market of the 
South and the Union of South American Nations are 
being set up and are all part of the great historic Latin 
American geographic and geopolitical revolution.  
 Along the same lines are the seven military bases 
that the United States is going to establish in 
Colombia. Yesterday, Obama spoke — I have it noted 
here — about four pillars. Everyone remembers that. 
So let us accomplish that. I take him at his word. We 
take the President of the United States at his word: 
nuclear non-proliferation, agreed? They could begin by 
destroying all the nuclear weapons that they have. 
Then go ahead and destroy them.  
 Obama’s second pillar — the first was 
non-proliferation — is the pursuit of peace. So, 
President Obama, let us pursue peace in Colombia, in 
dear sister Colombia. There is a civil war in Colombia. 
That some do not want to acknowledge it is another 
matter. There is a long-standing, historical conflict in 
Colombia. The United Nations must acknowledge it 
and consider it, and we all should extend a hand to 
Colombia, while of course respecting its sovereignty, 
to pull it from and help it out of that tragedy that that 
brother people is experiencing. 
 I remember that I mentioned that peace to Obama 
in front of Lula in Trinidad and Tobago at the Summit 
of the Americas. Let us seek peace in Colombia. If 
only peace were achieved in Central America, in 
Guatemala. When I was an active soldier, I was in 
Guatemala. That was war. It was war, with thousands 
and thousands dead and disappeared. Look at 
El Salvador and Nicaragua. And now Daniel Ortega is 
back in Government after almost 20 years. The 
Sandinista people brought him back. 
 What is good for the goose is good for the gander. 
Farabundo Martí and the people of El Salvador brought 
President Funés to the presidency of that sister 
republic. Peace was achieved — I know President 
Arias is here — and if peace was achieved in Central 
America, my God, why can peace not be achieved in 
Colombia? This is one of the greatest desires of my 
life. I am Venezuelan, but I feel like a Colombian — 
the Colombia of Bolivar, the Colombia of Miranda, our 
Colombia.  
 Is President Obama thinking of seeking peace — 
his second pillar — with seven more military bases in 
Colombia? These seven bases are a threat, not only for 
the possible peace in Colombia but for peace in South 
America. We are right — we the Governments of South 
America — to have said, each in our own way and in 
our own degree of intensity, how concerned we are 
about the installation of these seven American military 
bases on Colombian territory. I would like to denounce 
it and point it out. I ask President Obama to think about 
it and that he apply his pillars. 
 Let us promote peace. The United Nations could 
set up a peace commission in Colombia or Venezuela. 
Naturally, we would cooperate, I am sure, all countries 
that want peace. We do not want any more war among 
ourselves. 
 I will skip some pages. There is another topic that 
Fidel touches upon in his 21 September thoughts. It has 
to do with climate change. I am going to take another 
two minutes, Mr. President, to insist on this point. 
Some people think this is a metaphysical concern, it is 
for intellectuals. No, we are destroying our planet. As a 
reputable Venezuelan journalist has said, this rocket we 
are travelling on — because this planet is like a rocket 
ship — we are destroying it.  
 Fidel says, in his piece entitled “A species in 
danger of extinction”, from 21 September 2009, “At 
the international environmental conference held by the 
United Nations in Rio de Janeiro” — that was in 1992; 
I remember because I was in jail at the time — “I 
stated, as the then head of the Cuban State, ‘A species 
is in danger of extinction — man’”. Fidel goes on to 
say:  
  “When I uttered and backed up those words, 
received and applauded by the heads of State in 
attendance — including the President of the 
United States, a Bush less dismal than his son 
George W. — they still believed that they had 
several centuries to confront the problem. I 
myself” — Fidel — “did not envision a date any 
closer than 60 or 80 years. 
  “Today we are dealing with a truly 
imminent danger and its effects are already 
visible. 
 
 
7 09-52425 
 
  “Average temperatures have increased 
0.8 degrees centigrade since 1980.” 
 That is scientific data, according to the NASA 
Institute for Space Studies — 0.8 degrees in the last 
almost 30 years. Fidel continues,  
  “The last two decades of the twentieth 
century were the warmest in hundreds of years. 
The temperatures in Alaska, the Canadian west 
and eastern Russia have gone up at a pace that 
doubles the world average. Arctic ice has been 
quickly disappearing and the region can 
experience its first completely ice-free summer as 
soon as the year 2040. The effects are visible in 
the 2-kilometre-high masses of ice melting in 
Greenland, the South American glaciers, from 
Ecuador all the way to Cape Horn, fundamental 
sources of water, and the gigantic ice cap 
covering the extensive area of Antarctica.  
  “Current carbon dioxide concentrations 
have reached the equivalent of 380 parts per 
million, a figure surpassing the natural range of 
the last 650,000 years.” 
 We are destroying our planet. We must be aware 
of this, and we must act, as Lula stated at the 3rd 
meeting yesterday. With respect to climate change, 
Lula said there is no will. The most developed 
countries do not want to take decisions. But Obama 
says they do. But we are told that the United States is 
going to take some decisions. Please do, Mr. President, 
do that. But now is time to move from words to action. 
Let us save this planet. Let us save the human race.  
 Let us hope that the summit in Denmark in 
December will produce decisions, truly forceful ones. 
Venezuela is willing to accept those decisions. 
Venezuela calls on everyone to take decisions 
proportionate to the extent of their responsibility.  
 Now, what is the basic cause of this 
contamination? It is hyper-consumption. We are 
exhausting the petroleum, gas and other fossil fuel 
reserves. Reserves that accumulated over millions of 
years are being burned in a single century, in less than 
a century.  
 And that of course has to do with the economy. I 
shall not read this document, Mr. President; I shall 
merely refer to it. It is the Stiglitz report. I invite the 
Assembly to analyse it. Yesterday the President of 
France also invited the Assembly to analyse it. It is 
thanks to him that the report of the Stiglitz 
Commission exists. But it is nothing more than a mere 
gesture.  
 The report contains 12 recommendations of the 
Stiglitz Commission. Let us assess them. I think that 
they address the substance, although they do not 
question the capitalist model. We socialists do question 
that model, but let us talk about it, let us find 
consensus solutions for the circumstances and later for 
the medium and long terms.  
 In its recommendations, the Stiglitz report says, 
first, that we should look at income and consumption 
to assess material well-being. Second, it recommends 
prioritizing the family perspective; third, taking into 
account the heritage; fourth, giving more importance to 
redistribution of income beyond the average. Fifth, it 
recommends expanding indicators of non-commercial 
activities. For example, certain services such as child 
care, bricklaying, plumbing and carpentry appear in 
national accounts only if they are carried out by a 
salaried person.  
 Delegates know that this has to do with 
accounting for gross domestic product (GDP). These 
are merely capitalist mechanisms. According to the 
report, the following is certain: the GDP rises with 
traffic, while the anxiety of the people also rises, just 
as the unhappiness of passers-by and passengers in 
traffic rises as they lost precious time in the traffic.  
 The GDP rises. Why is it rising? It is rising 
because more gasoline is consumed. Moreover, 
pollution increases. We know why. The capitalist world 
has created measuring methods for the economy that 
are destructive. That is why I think the Stiglitz report 
offers important considerations. Here, in its second 
point, it says that we should establish a battery of 
indicators for the environment and for climate change. 
 Turning to the economy, this report is very 
timely. Let us now adopt it, and above all, 
Governments, particularly Governments of the most 
developed countries — I think they are meeting in 
Pittsburgh today, not as the Pittsburgh Pirates, but as 
Presidents of the Group of 20 — should discuss it. 
Tomorrow I will ask Lula and Cristina how the meeting 
went, because they are coming to Caracas on their way 
to Margarita Island for the Africa-South American 
summit.  
  
 
09-52425 8 
 
 The economy, the economy, the economy. We are 
in favour of socialism, but let us discuss it and talk 
about indicators and methods and modes of production. 
As President Obama said yesterday with regards to his 
fourth pillar, we need an economy that serves human 
beings. Well, President Obama, that is called socialism. 
Come over to the side of socialism, President Obama, 
come join the axis of evil and we will build an 
economy that truly serves human beings. It is 
impossible to do that with capitalism. Capitalism only 
benefits a minority and excludes the majority. Besides, 
it destroys the environment and destroys lives. That is 
capitalism. 
 Finally — and I think I have now been speaking 
for my allotted 10 minutes — I will end with a phrase 
of Lula’s. He was the first speaker in the Assembly 
yesterday. He said there is no political will. I have 
already commented on that, and I would add to it 
because I know Lula and I know exactly what he said 
to us. He is calling upon all of us to strengthen political 
will. 
 Unlike other Governments elsewhere, which have 
doubts and do not want to change despite the terrible 
crisis in which we are living, we in southern America 
have a lot of political will — here I am speaking for 
Venezuela and, I know, also for South America, for 
Latin America — a tremendous political will for true 
change.  
 I recommend this book by István Mészáros, a 
great Hungarian philosopher and thinker who has been 
a professor at various universities in London for many 
years: Beyond Capital: Toward a Theory of Transition. 
I think the book is among the greatest writings of the 
twentieth century. It is a complete renewal of socialist 
theory. In one of the interesting chapters Mészáros 
quotes another great person, Karl Marx. We must not 
be afraid of Karl Marx — he was the Einstein of 
politics. Yes, he was demonized, but Karl Marx was 
right about so many things. 
 Quoting Marx, Mészáros says in this book that 
crises act as a general threat and thus urgently lead us 
beyond presuppositions towards a new historic 
paradigm. We need a new historic paradigm. For years 
we have been hearing about a new world, but what 
actually exists is this old, moribund order. We need the 
new order to be born, the new historic paradigm, the 
new political paradigm, a new global paradigm. 
Yesterday Al-Qadhafi said here that we need a new 
institutionalism, a new economy, a new society, but 
truly new — a world that is new.  
 Now, I think Lula said yesterday — he finished 
speaking at 10:10 in the morning — that we must 
become the midwives of history. I agree. I would add 
to what Lula said. Has the birth already started? The 
birth is not a future event; it is here. Let us be, as 
Comrade Lula said, midwives of the new history, 
prevailing over those who would bury it. Let us 
struggle on the planet for the birth of this new history, 
this new time, this new multi-polar, free world, this 
economy at the service of all people, not of minorities, 
this world of peace.  
 I am a Christian. One day Christ said, “My 
kingdom is not of this world.” It is of a future world, 
the reign of love among us, where we can truly live as 
brothers and sisters. 
 Last Sunday in Havana — and I will put my little 
books away and I will wind up now — on the Plaza de 
la Revolución there was a great concert, the “Concert 
for Peace”, with Miguel Bosé, Juanes, Olga Tañó and 
Cuban singers. Silvio Rodríguez was there — the Great 
Silvio — and they sang to the whole world. Some 
people in Miami went crazy and tried to destroy 
Juanes’ CDs — that great Colombian — just because 
he had gone to sing on the Plaza of the Revolution. 
How crazy can you get? Fortunately they are a 
minority. Silvio was there with his guitar, and I am sure 
he sang, “This era is giving birth to a heart”. He ends 
his song, Cita Con Angeles, like this: “Let us be a tiny 
bit better and a little less selfish.” 
 Cheers!

===== Session 65 - 2010 =====
On behalf of the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, I wish the new 
President of this session of the General Assembly the 
greatest success during his term. 
 The Bolivarian revolution plans to contribute to 
the structure and agenda of the United Nations, which 
currently reflect the unjust power relationships that 
exist in the world. As it is today, this forum helps to 
perpetuate the unjust relations inherited from the 
Second World War, relations that become more 
exclusive and authoritarian as neoliberal globalization 
advances. The President of the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela, Hugo Chavez Frías, said on 15 September 
2005, in his speech during the general debate at the 
sixtieth session of the United Nations General 
Assembly that “the United Nations has outgrown its 
model. It is not just a question of simple reform. The 
twenty-first century requires profound changes that 
will be possible only if the Organization is truly 
recast.” (A/60/PV.6, p.17) 
 There are two poignant examples that illustrate 
this unfair and irrational world power architecture. For 
the past 19 years, the overwhelming majority of the 
countries of the world have come before the General 
Assembly to demand an end to the economic and 
commercial blockade imposed on the heroic Cuban 
people. But what has the Organization done to ensure 
that the United States Government abides by the will of 
the General Assembly? The answer is well known: 
nothing. 
 Dozens of resolutions have been adopted by the 
Security Council and the General Assembly on the 
question of Palestine, but the Israeli military and 
political elite refuse to comply. The occupying Power 
acts with total impunity and with the complicity of its 
main ally. What has the Security Council done to get 
the occupying Power to respect the principles of 
international law, including international humanitarian 
law, and particularly the four Geneva Conventions of 
1949? The answer is well known: nothing. 
 The rebuilding of the United Nations hinges on 
strengthening the General Assembly and its handling of 
matters relating to international peace and security. 
 
 
13 10-55408 
 
Venezuela challenges the fact that a small group of 
countries impose their conditions in these areas, while 
the opinion of the majority is not taken into account. A 
strategy aimed at weakening the General Assembly and 
excluding it from the most relevant world decisions is 
being implemented in the United Nations, while the 
Security Council progressively increases its power and 
influence over the United Nations agenda and takes 
over topics beyond the purview granted to it by the 
Charter of the Organization. The Secretary-General, 
according to the Charter of the United Nations, is an 
administrative officer of the Organization responsible 
for answering to the interests of all Member States, and 
not the policies of a few Powers that seek to drive the 
global agenda. 
 For almost 20 years we have been discussing the 
reform of the Security Council and the strengthening of 
the General Assembly, yet so far almost nothing has 
been achieved. The call from President Chavez to 
recast the United Nations remains fully valid. To that 
end, Venezuela proposes to eliminate the right of veto 
enjoyed by only five Members of the United Nations. 
This remnant of the Second World War is incompatible 
with the principle of the sovereign equality of States. 
Venezuela also proposes an increase in the Security 
Council’s membership in both the permanent and  
non-permanent categories. Why are developing 
countries deprived of the right to participate in that 
forum? 
 Venezuela therefore urges all States to propose 
candidates for the post of Secretary-General, with the 
aim of democratizing elections to this senior post. We 
believe that resolution 11 (I), adopted on 24 January 
1946, regarding the terms of election of the Secretary-
General, in no way restricts the ability of Member 
States to discuss and vote in this election. In line with 
democratic principles and transparency, Member States 
must participate in both the nomination and the 
appointment of this senior official. States would 
therefore be free to choose among several alternatives.  
 Rebuilding the United Nations also requires that 
the General Assembly fully exercise its responsibilities 
in matters of international peace and security, as 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. 
 Climate change negotiations are unfolding in a 
complex context that makes it difficult to arrive at 
consensus on the majority of topics. Developed 
countries reject international commitments that are 
fully in force, specifically the Kyoto Protocol. The 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela hopes that, at the 
next Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in Cancún at the end of this year, a legally binding 
agreement is reached that is ambitious and respects the 
Convention and the Kyoto Protocol.  
 Venezuela is fighting for the creation of a 
development model based on a new paradigm that 
substitutes the prevailing models of production and 
consumption. Developing countries and the most 
vulnerable sectors of developed countries suffer the 
impact of the economic and financial crises of 
capitalism. It is therefore essential and necessary to 
consider a transformation of this inhumane model that, 
with its new crisis, has generated more hunger, poverty, 
unemployment and inequality. The crisis of capitalism 
has not ended. Its structural nature reproduces itself ad 
infinitum. Privileged groups, the financial economy, 
speculators, monopolies and oligopolies and the 
Bretton Woods institutions will continue to try to have 
the crisis paid for by developing countries and the 
world’s poor and most vulnerable. Neoliberal policies, 
which are applied as a result of the global crisis of 
capitalism, propose the totalitarianism of the financial 
markets, deepening the gap between the rich and the 
poor within those countries and widening the 
inequalities between the North and the South.  
 It is also important to underscore that the efforts 
of the developed countries in the context of official 
development assistance (ODA) have not been 
sustained, as large donors have repeatedly not fulfilled 
their pledges when it comes to the agreed goal of 
allocating 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product 
to ODA.  
 Faced with this crisis, developing countries 
should strengthen South-South cooperation and create 
alternative sovereign mechanisms to avoid the credit 
monopoly maintained by the Bretton Woods 
institutions. To that end, Venezuela aims to create and 
strengthen regional financial institutions such as the 
Bank of the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our 
America — Peoples’ Trade Agreement (ALBA-TCP) 
and the Bank of the South. We welcome the initiatives 
in that regard that are being undertaken in Africa and 
Asia. 
 South-South cooperation is a top priority for 
Venezuela. In Latin America and the Caribbean there 
  
 
10-55408 14 
 
are already successful experiences such as that of 
Petrocaribe, which fosters supportive cooperation in 
the energy sector, and that of ALBA-TCP, which is 
producing successful results in overcoming poverty 
and inequality. These novel forms of solidarity and 
supportive cooperation contribute to the development 
of our peoples and to the achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals.  
 I take great satisfaction in pointing out that, 
despite the problematic international economic and 
financial environment, the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela has met almost all of the Millennium 
Development Goals, in particular in the areas of 
poverty, health, nutrition, education, child mortality 
and sanitation, among others. We would like to 
underscore that Venezuela assumed the presidency of 
the Latin American and Caribbean Summit on 
Integration and Development in February 2010. The 
third Summit will be held in our country on 5 July 
2011, within the framework of the historic bicentennial 
anniversary of our signing of our Declaration of 
Independence.  
 Venezuela attaches particular importance to the 
process of union and integration in Latin America and 
the Caribbean. Progress to that end will lead to the full 
operation of the Community of Latin American and 
Caribbean States, thereby achieving the dream of our 
liberators as reflected in the Constitution of the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. The union of our 
peoples — the peoples of the South fighting for 
independence, freedom, sovereignty and self-
determination — is a priority of our Simon Bolivar 
national project, as enshrined in our first socialist plan 
for the period 2007 to 2013. 
 In the face of recurrent attempts to erode the 
sovereignty of countries and in the face of a savage 
capitalist and neoliberal offensive, the Bolivarian 
Government calls for the relaunching of the Group of 
77 and China and the Non-Aligned Movement so that 
developing countries can more forcefully defend the 
interests of their peoples. 
 We wish to avail ourselves of this opportunity at 
the rostrum to express our appreciation for the 
compliments sent to President Hugo Chávez Frías by 
numerous Governments and social and popular 
movements from around the world on the occasion of 
the victory in the Venezuelan parliamentary elections 
last Sunday, 26 September. That victory is a clear 
testament to the majority support of the people for the 
humanistic policies promoted by the Bolivarian 
Government. This electoral victory will also enable our 
Bolivarian Government to strengthen its solidarity with 
developing countries. 
 Defenders of peace, justice, freedom and 
solidarity in the world can continue to rely on the 
support of the Bolivarian revolution. 

===== Session 66 - 2011 =====
It is almost the end of 
the beginning of the annual debate in United Nations. 
Having listened to and evaluated positions on different 
world issues debated by the planet and all of humanity, 
the delegation of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, 
the South American Bolivarian Republic, has received 
for the purposes of sharing with the Governments and 
the brotherly peoples of the world through the General 
Assembly a letter from the president of our Republic, 
Commander Hugo Chávez Frías. This letter contains a 
series of comments and reflections that are necessary 
and relevant for a democratic debate in our world and, 
above all, for the process of the growing empowerment 
of the peoples of the world and of transformation and 
necessary re-establishment of the United Nations as a 
multilateral system that has been with us for the last 
six or seven decades. 
 By your leave, Sir, I will read out and distribute 
to delegations the letter from Commander Hugo 
Chávez: 
  “Caracas, 26 September 2011 
  “I am writing these words to the United 
Nations General Assembly, that great forum 
where representatives of all the peoples of the 
world meet to express the reality of the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and to reaffirm 
our unwavering commitment to justice, equality 
and peace.  
  “Peace, peace, peace … let us not look for 
peace in cemeteries, as Kant said with irony, but 
rather through the most zealous respect for 
international law. Unfortunately, the United 
Nations, throughout its history, instead of adding 
and multiplying efforts for peace among nations, 
has ended up by supporting the most ruthless 
injustices, sometimes by acts of commission, 
sometimes by acts of omission.  
  “We need to recall the Preamble of the 
Charter of the United Nations, which talks of 
saving future generations from the scourge of 
war. Those are just empty words; since 1945, the 
number of wars has continued to grow 
inexorably. Let us look once again at Libya in 
ruins, covered in blood, because of the powerful 
people in this world.  
  “I call on the Governments of the world to 
consider that since 11 September 2001, a new 
  
 
11-51681 2 
 
imperialist war was started, an unprecedented, 
permanent, perpetual war. 
  “We need to face the cruel reality of our 
world. We must make a list of our concerns 
stemming from the dangers and threats that are 
stalking us. Why is the United States the only 
country that sows military bases all over the 
world? What is it so afraid of that it must set 
aside staggering budgets for constantly increasing 
its military strength? Why has it unleashed so 
many wars, violating the sovereignty of other 
countries, which have the same rights over their 
futures? How can we can we use international 
law to counter its senseless ambition to militarily 
dominate the world in order to ensure access to 
the energy sources it needs to sustain its 
predatory consumerist model? Why does the 
United Nations do nothing to stop Washington?  
  “If we answer all of these questions with 
absolute sincerity, we would understand that the 
empire has crowned itself judge of the world, 
without anyone bestowing that responsibility on 
it and even though, therefore, the imperialist war 
is a threat to us all.  
  “Washington knows that a multipolar world 
is already an irreversible reality. Its strategy 
consists of halting the sustained rise of groups of 
emerging countries at any price, by promoting its 
major interests with its partners and followers in 
order to direct multi-polarity along the path that 
the empire wants. What is more, the goal is to 
reconfigure the world so that it sustains Yankee 
military hegemony. Humankind is facing a 
genuine threat of permanent war. As the case of 
Libya shows, the empire is ready, in any scenario, 
to create the political conditions for going to war. 
In the imperial worldview, Clausewitz’s famous 
axiom is being reversed: politics is the 
continuation of war by other means. 
  “What is behind this new Armageddon? It is 
the absolute power of the military-financial 
leadership, destroying the world in its 
accumulation of more profits, a military-financial 
leadership that is in fact subordinate to a group of 
States. It should be borne in mind that war is 
financial capital’s way of life: war that ruins most 
people and makes a few unimaginably rich. At 
this moment we have a profoundly serious threat 
to global peace: the unleashing of a new cycle of 
colonial wars, starting with Libya, with the 
cynical goal of breathing new life into the global 
capitalist system, whose current structural crisis 
has still in no way curbed its destructive, 
consumerist voraciousness. The case of Libya 
should alert us to the desire to practice a new 
imperial version of colonialism: military 
interventionism endorsed by the anti-democratic 
bodies of the United Nations and justified by 
prefabricated lies. 
  “Humankind is on the brink of an 
unimaginable catastrophe. The world is marching 
inexorably towards devastating ecocide; the 
terrifying consequences of global warming 
proclaim it, but the ideology of the environmental 
equivalents of Cortés and Pizarro, the early 
Spanish colonizers who destroyed part of the 
American continent — as the influential French 
thinker Edgar Morin has said — drives them to 
continue their depredations and destruction. The 
energy and food crises worsen, while capitalism 
still breaches every boundary with impunity. 
  “As we face this bleak prospect, our way is 
lighted by the great American scientist and two-
time Nobel prize winner, Linus Pauling, who 
said: 
   ‘I believe that there is a greater power 
in the world than the evil power of military 
force, of nuclear bombs — there is the 
power of good, of morality, of 
humanitarianism. I believe in the power of 
the human spirit’. 
 Then let us mobilize all the power of the human 
spirit; it is time. We must unleash a great political 
counter-offensive to prevent the powers of 
darkness finding justification for going to war, so 
they can unleash the generalized global war with 
which they hope to save the West’s capital. 
Venezuela calls for the establishment of a grand 
alliance against war and for peace, with the 
supreme goal of avoiding war at all costs. The 
warmongers and, especially, the military-
financial leadership that sponsors and leads them 
must be defeated politically. Let us build the 
balanced universe envisioned by the liberator 
Simón Bolivar, the balance that, as he said, 
 
 
3 11-51681 
 
cannot be found in war; the balance born out of 
peace. 
  “Let us take note and remember: Venezuela, 
along with the member countries of the 
Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our 
America, actively advocated for a peaceful and 
negotiated solution to the Libyan conflict, as did 
the African Union. Eventually, however, the logic 
of war decreed by the Security Council and made 
a reality by NATO, the armed wing of the Yankee 
empire, was imposed, the logic of war whose 
vanguard is the transnational media. 
  “Let us remember that the case of Libya 
was brought before the Security Council on the 
basis of intense propaganda on the part of the 
media, which lied in saying that the Libyan Air 
Force was bombing innocent civilians, not to 
mention the grotesque media setting of Tripoli’s 
Green Square. This premeditated campaign of lies 
was used to justify hasty and irresponsible 
decisions by the Security Council, paving the way 
for NATO’s policy of military regime change in 
Libya. It is worth asking: what became of the 
no-fly zone established by Security Council 
resolution 1973 (2011)? How could the more than 
20,000 NATO missions flown against Libya, 
many of them aimed at bombing the Libyan 
people, not represent the denial of the no-fly 
zone? Once the Libyan Air Force was completely 
annihilated, the continued ‘humanitarian’ 
bombing showed that the West, through NATO, is 
imposing its interests on North Africa, turning 
Libya into a colonial protectorate. 
  “It is a joke to say that the United Nations 
imposed an arms embargo on Libya, when NATO 
itself brought in thousands of heavy weapons in 
support of a violent insurrection against that 
country’s legitimate Government. The embargo, 
of course, was there only to prevent the Libyan 
Government from defending its sovereignty, 
exposing yet again the functioning of the cruel 
international system, under which the law applies 
only to the weak. 
  “What is the real reason for this military 
intervention? To recolonize Libya so as to take 
over its wealth. We have no doubt about that. 
Everything else is subordinate to that goal. No 
one colonizes innocently, as the great poet of 
Martinique, Aimé Césaire, rightly said in his 
extraordinary essay on colonialism. By the way, 
the residence of Venezuela’s Ambassador in 
Tripoli was invaded and looted while the United 
Nations stayed mute, guarding a shameful 
silence. 
  “We demand the immediate cessation of the 
bombing on Libyan territory. We will also 
continue demanding that international law be 
respected in the case of this sister nation. We will 
not remain silent in the face of evil intentions to 
destroy the foundations that endow it with sense 
and reason. We therefore put this question to the 
Assembly: Why is the Libyan seat in the United 
Nations granted to the so called National 
Transitional Council while Palestine’s admission 
is blocked by ignoring not only its legitimate 
aspiration, but also the will of the majority of the 
General Assembly? With all its strength and with 
the moral authority granted it by the will of the 
majority of the world’s peoples, Venezuela 
hereby affirms its unconditional solidarity with 
the Palestinian people and its unlimited support 
for the Palestinian national cause, including, of 
course, the immediate admission of Palestine to 
the United Nations as a full Member State. 
  “And the same imperialist formula is being 
repeated in the case of Syria. Had not some of the 
Security Council’s permanent members stood 
firm, it would all have ended with the Council 
authorizing NATO to fire its missiles and send its 
bombers against Syria. It is intolerable that the 
Powers of this world wish to arrogate to 
themselves the right to order legitimate, 
sovereign rulers to resign on the spot. Having 
succeeded in Libya, they wish to proceed in the 
same way against Syria. Such are the current 
asymmetries that exist on the international scene, 
and such are the abuses done to independent 
nations. 
  “It is not for us to pass judgement on 
Syria’s domestic situation, first, because of the 
inherent complexity of any national reality, and 
secondly, because only the Syrian people can 
solve their problems and decide their fate by the 
right to self-determination of all peoples, an 
inalienable right in every sense. But that does not 
prevent us from believing that it is 100 times 
better to bet on the success of the broad national 
  
 
11-51681 4 
 
dialogue for which President Basher Al-Assad 
has called than to impose sanctions and howl like 
hyenas for military intervention. We fully support 
the efforts of President Al-Assad to preserve the 
stability and unity of his country, which is being 
besieged by the West.  
  “Now let us turn to the Horn of Africa, 
where we will witness a heartbreaking example 
of the United Nations’ historic failure. Most 
serious news agencies report that 20,000 to 
29,000 children under the age of five have died in 
the last three months. 
  “The journalist Frida Modak, in her article 
‘To Die In Somalia’ reveals the miserliness that 
afflicts the major international organizations, first 
among them the United Nations, a level of 
poverty worse than that ravaging the vast region 
of the Horn of Africa. 
  “In order to confront this situation, we need 
$1.4 billion, not to solve the problem but to 
address the emergency that Somalia, Kenya, 
Djibouti and Ethiopia are going through. 
According to all information received, the next 
two months will be decisive if we are to prevent 
the death of more than 12 million people. That 
situation is most acute in Somalia. 
  “We must also ask ourselves how much 
money is being spent on sophisticated weapons to 
destroy Libya. Here is the answer of United 
States Congressman Dennis Kucinich, who says, 
‘This new war will cost us $500 million during its 
first week alone. Obviously, we do not have 
financing resources for that and we will end up 
cutting off other important domestic programs’ 
funding’. According to Mr. Kucinich himself, the 
amount spent in northern Africa during the first 
three weeks to massacre the Libyan people could 
have been used to help the entire Horn of Africa, 
saving dozens of thousands of lives. 
  “The reasons behind the criminal military 
engagement in Libya are not humanitarian at all. 
They are based on the Malthusian postulate that 
there are simply too many people in the world 
and that they have to be eliminated by generating 
more hunger, destruction and uncertainty, thereby 
creating more financial profits.  
  “In this regard, it is frankly regrettable that 
the opening address of the sixty-sixth session of 
the General Assembly did not include an 
immediate appeal to solve the humanitarian crisis 
in the Horn of Africa, even as it asserted that the 
time had come to act on Syria. What criminal 
cynicism! 
  “We also call for an end to the shameful 
criminal blockade against our sister republic of 
Cuba, imposed by the United States empire for 
more than 50 years with gruesome cruelty against 
the heroic people of José Martí. By 2010, a total 
of 19 separate votes in the General Assembly 
articulated the universal demand that the United 
States cease its economic and trade blockade 
against Cuba.  
  “Since all arguments of international good 
sense have been exhausted, we have no choice 
but to believe that such aggravated cruelty 
against the Cuban Revolution is the result of 
imperial arrogance in the face of the dignity and 
courage shown by the defiant Cuban people in 
their sovereign decision to determine their own 
fate and fight for their happiness. 
  “In Venezuela, we believe that the time has 
come to demand that the United States not only 
immediately and unconditionally end the criminal 
blockade it has imposed against the Cuban 
people, but that it also release the five Cuban 
anti-terrorist fighters held hostage in the prisons 
of the empire solely for seeking to prevent illegal 
actions that terrorist groups are preparing against 
Cuba, under the protection of the Government of 
the United States. 
  “We wish to reiterate that it is impossible to 
ignore the crisis in the United Nations. In 2005, 
before this very General Assembly, we declared 
that the model of the United Nations was 
obsolete. Back then, we also said that it needed to 
be rebuilt from the ground up, and that the 
process could not be postponed. 
  “Since then, nothing has been done. The 
political will of the most powerful has prevailed. 
Of course, the United Nations, as it continues to 
function, docilely serves their interests. If its 
Secretary-General, along with the President of the 
International Criminal Court, takes part in an act 
of war, as is the case with Libya, then nothing can 
 
 
5 11-51681 
 
be expected from the current structure of this 
Organization, and there is no longer time for 
reform. The United Nations does not accept any 
reform whatsoever. The illness within it is fatal. 
  “It is unbearable that there is a Security 
Council that turns its back, whenever it wants to, 
on the clamour of a majority of nations, 
deliberately refusing to acknowledge the will of 
the General Assembly. If the Security Council is a 
kind of club with privileged members, what can 
the General Assembly do? What is the scope of 
its operation when its members violate 
international law? 
  “Paraphrasing the liberator Simón Bolívar, 
who was referring specifically, in 1818, to the 
then newborn Yankee imperialism, we have had 
enough of laws being applied by the weak and 
abuses being committed by the strong. The 
peoples of the South cannot be the ones to respect 
international law, while the North violates, 
destroys and plunders us. 
  “If we do not commit ourselves once and 
for all to restructuring the United Nations, this 
Organization will definitively lose its last shred 
of credibility. Its crisis of legitimacy is 
accelerating toward a final implosion. In fact, that 
is what happened to its immediate predecessor: 
the League of Nations. 
  “A crucial and decisive first step towards 
restructuring the United Nations would be to 
eliminate the category of permanent member 
along with the right to veto in the Security 
Council. Likewise, the decision-making power of 
the General Assembly must be democratically 
maximized. A comprehensive review of the 
Charter of the United Nations is also urgently 
required, with the aim of drafting a new Charter. 
  “The future of a peaceful, multipolar world 
depends on the determination of the majority of 
the world’s people to defend ourselves from the 
new colonialism and to achieve a balance in the 
universe that will be capable of neutralizing 
imperialism and its arrogance. 
  “This broad, generous, respectful and 
inclusive call is addressed to all the peoples of 
the world, but most especially to the emerging 
Powers of the South, which must courageously 
rise to the role they are being asked to play.  
  “From Latin America and the Caribbean, a 
powerful dynamic of regional alliances has 
emerged that seeks to create a democratic space 
that will be respectful of differences and eager to 
emphasize solidarity and complementarity in 
order to maximize that which unites us and 
resolve politically whatever divides us.  
  “This new regionalism allows for diversity 
and respects everyone’s rhythms. The Bolivarian 
Alliance for the Peoples of Our America is 
growing into an experimental vanguard of 
progressive and anti-imperialist Governments, 
seeking ways to break with the prevailing 
international order and strengthening the people’s 
capacity to confront the de facto Powers. 
However, that does not prevent its members from 
contributing decisively and enthusiastically to the 
consolidation of the Union of South American 
Nations, a political bloc that federates 
12 sovereign States of South America into what 
the liberator Simón Bolívar called ‘a Nation of 
Republics’. Furthermore, the 33 countries that 
comprise Latin America and the Caribbean are 
currently preparing to take the historic step of 
establishing a single great regional entity that 
unites us all, without exception, through which 
we will be able to design policies that will ensure 
our well-being, our independence and our 
sovereignty, based on equality, solidarity, and 
reciprocity.  
  “Caracas, the capital of the Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela, is proud to be able to 
host, on 2 and 3 December of this year, the 
summit of heads of State and Government that 
will definitely establish the Community of Latin 
American and Caribbean States. 
  “The people of Venezuela have placed their 
hopes in a broad alliance of regional assemblies 
of the South, such as the Union of South 
American Nations, the Caribbean Community, the 
Central American Integration System, the African 
Union, the Association of Southeast Asian 
Nations and the Economic Cooperation 
Organization, among other regional 
organizations, and specifically in interregional 
coordinating bodies of emerging Powers such as 
  
 
11-51681 6 
 
the BRICS group — consisting of Brazil, Russia, 
India, China and South Africa — which must 
become a focus of attention in coordination with 
the peoples of the South. 
  “I would like to conclude by recalling the 
great Venezuelan singer Ali Primera, whose 
poetic voice sent a message of life and revolution 
to our people. In one of his songs, he asks: what 
is man’s struggle to achieve peace? And what 
kind of peace would it be, if we were to leave the 
world as it is? Today more than ever, the worst 
crime against peace would be to leave the world 
as it is; if we were to do so, the present and the 
future would be characterized by unending war. 
Bringing about peace, on the other hand, requires 
a radical rejection of everything that prevents 
humankind from being human.”

===== Session 67 - 2012 =====
﻿We would like to
congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election as
President of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh
session.

Our world is afflicted by new political, economic
and social turmoil that has disrupted the peaceful
coexistence of the peoples of the world and reduced
the quality of life for millions of human beings. New
neocolonial wars have been launched aimed at seizing
the natural resources of developing countries.
The proponents of capitalism, while attempting to
overcome the deep economic crisis that has affected
the global financial system, have been resorting to new
imperialistic strategies and overexploiting workers,
including those in developing countries. The social
welfare State and the social achievements attained
after the Second World War are now in the process of
being dismantled. The new imperialists have sought
to transfer responsibility for the crisis to those born in
other countries and to immigrants, whereas the current
economic crisis was caused primarily by financial
speculators. Social policies are gradually being reduced
or eliminated. The middle class has been growing poor.
Hunger, poverty and unemployment are reappearing in
the developed countries and are spreading around the
world. Suffering and despair are increasing.
Meanwhile, Latin America and the Caribbean have
managed to tackle, with relative success, the impact
of those global economic and financial imbalances.
The United Nations Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean reports that the economies
in our region have had a significant rebound beginning
in 2010, which enabled our region to mitigate the
effects of the 2008 to 2009 crisis. Latin America and
the Caribbean are well positioned on the world stage,
thanks to the strengthening of initiatives in the area of
regional integration, designed to strengthen political
and economic autonomy. Therefore, the domination
that the imperial Powers and their multinationals have
imposed on developing countries is gradually being
overcome.
The Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our
America is a new coordination mechanism for dialogue
guided by cooperation, complementarity and solidarity
among sovereign nations. It represents an alternative
for the liberation and independence of our countries.
The Community of Latin American and Caribbean
States (CELAC) and the Union of South American
Nations (UNASUR) are regional spaces of multilateral
cooperation aimed at strengthening the unity of Latin
America and the Caribbean and are constructing
a multipolar, balanced and just world in which the sovereign equality of States will prevail as well as a
culture of peace in a world free of nuclear weapons and
of weapons of mass destruction. CELAC and UNASUR
have inspired social and human development, with
equity and inclusion, and seek to eradicate poverty
and overcome inequalities in the region. In Latin
America and the Caribbean, we are seeing a new type
of regionalism that is being promoted by diplomatic
solidarity.
Today, the unipolar system of imperial domination
is in crisis. A pluripolar and multi-centred system has
been coming into being, in which emerging countries
and new regional blocs are able to contribute to the
democratization of international relations. Meanwhile,
the imperial Powers have been promoting, within the
United Nations, a new regulatory framework enabling
foreign intervention in the internal affairs of States,
trying to get States to give up their sovereignty, political
independence and self-determination. Those Powers
have become the judges, jurors and administrators of
internal conflicts in the countries of the South, resorting
to interventionist initiatives that are conceived here
at the United Nations and implemented through the
Security Council.
A new international order, truly based on the legal
equality of States, is an imperative demand. Reform of
the United Nations is necessary. The Security Council
must become more democratic if it wishes to express
the will of all nations. The General Assembly is
begging for revitalization, and the Secretary-General
should be elected democratically, by all Member States.
International peace and security cannot be built on the
basis of privileges for a few.
The international financial architecture that
emerged at Bretton Woods is anti-democratic. The
General Assembly and the Economic and Social
Council are never taken into account when decisions
are made on vital economic and financial matters that
affect all of humankind. Reform of the global economic
and financial system must be addressed in the United
Nations, and all countries should have an equal voice
in the search for solutions to problems related to
development.
In Syria we are following the same interventionist
script that was applied in Libya. Imperial Powers are
fomenting ethnic, political and religious divisions
between Syrians and between Syria and its neighbours.
They are shamelessly supplying weapons to the rebel forces in an attempt to overthrow the Government of
that Arab country. Venezuela supports the peace efforts
being made by the Joint Special Representative of the
United Nations and the League of Arab States for Syria,
Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi. We should encourage political
dialogue between Syrians, but we reject foreign
intervention and the deadly policy of regime change.
We support the positions of Russia, China and other
countries on the issue; they demand that the Security
Council respect the territorial unity and integrity of the
Syrian State. The Non-Aligned Movement can play a
proactive role in helping to solve that crisis.
The Bolivarian Government reaffirms its support
for the existence of a Palestinian State, independent
and sovereign, within internationally recognized
borders, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of
the Security Council and the General Assembly. We
also reiterate our support for Palestine’s admission as
a State Member of the United Nations with full rights.
We are concerned about the warmongering threats
of the Governments of Israel and the United States
against Iran. A military attack on that Persian nation
would have fatal consequences for world peace. We
recognize the sovereign right of the Islamic Republic of
Iran to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.
Respect for cultures and religions ensures the
peaceful coexistence of the human beings who populate
our planet. Within the crisis of capitalism, we have
once again seen a resurgence in Western countries of
racial hatred, xenophobia and hostility to other cultures
and religions. The reprehensible video against the great
Prophet Muhammad and Islam has naturally provoked
protests among Muslim peoples. Such anti-Islamic
expressions are not random; they are part of a political
and ideological climate that fosters hatred against those
who are different.
We deplore the fact that freedom of speech is being
used to offend religions and denigrate religious prophets.
What are the limits of the freedom of expression? Is it an
absolute freedom that allows one to besmirch people’s
deepest beliefs and religious feelings? Venezuela
rejects exhibitions of xenophobia against Muslims and
supports dialogue between cultures and civilizations
aimed at promoting peace and brotherhood among
human beings. At the same time, we call for respect for
the inviolability of diplomatic premises and the dignity
of human life.  The United States continues to maintain its criminal
economic and financial blockade of the fraternal people
of Cuba. Venezuela emphasizes its solidarity with the
Government of the Republic of Cuba and demands an
end to that unilateral coercive measure. It is ironic that
a country that practices State terrorism and shelters
the well-known terrorist Luís Posada Carriles includes
Cuba on its list of countries that support terrorism.
We demand that Cuba be removed from that arbitrary
classification, whose sole purpose is to justify the
economic, commercial and financial embargo against
its people.
Venezuela appreciates all efforts on the part of the
United Nations to improve its mediation capabilities in
crisis situations that could have negative consequences
for international peace and stability. The United Nations
should act in a neutral and impartial fashion, with a
view to strengthening its ability to mediate in cases in
which it is voluntarily and expressly requested to do so
by the parties involved in international conflicts. The
countries of Latin America and the Caribbean have
very valuable experience in the use of dialogue and
mediation for the settlement of disputes. The Rio Group
made a major contribution in helping to end the terrible
armed conflicts in Central America in recent years, and
UNASUR has also helped to prevent and settle disputes
in our region.
Venezuela welcomes the announcement made by
the President of Colombia, Mr. Juan Manuel Santos,
that negotiations will begin between his Government
and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia
(FARC), with a view to achieving stable and lasting
peace. Venezuela, Cuba, Chile and Norway are
taking part in the dialogue process as supporters, by
agreement between the Colombian authorities and
FARC. The Bolivarian Government is backing peace
and reconciliation for the Colombian people.
Venezuela supports the Republic of Argentina’s
right of sovereignty over the Malvinas Islands, the
South Georgia Islands and the South Sandwich Islands,
and the surrounding maritime areas. We reiterate our
call to the United Kingdom to begin talks with that
fraternal South American country in order to arrive at
a negotiated and peaceful solution to that dispute.
On Sunday, 7 October, democratic elections will be
held in Venezuela to elect the President of the Republic.
They will be transparent and credible, because, as
former United States President Jimmy Carter said
a few days ago, we have the most modern electoral system in the world. Between 1999 and 2012 we have
held 14 clean national elections, a world record in
political participation. We should issue a warning, here
in this forum, that anti-democratic national elements,
in alliance with foreign interests, are attempting to
use violence in order to subvert the will of the people.
The Venezuelan people are prepared, however, once
again to defend their democratic and revolutionary
achievements.
Venezuela needs a democratic opposition. Pluralism
and diversity coexist in democracy. And peace is the
only path for the homeland of Simón Bolívar. President
Hugo Chávez Frías is guaranteeing the continuity of
our sovereign and supportive foreign policy, focused
on improving Latin American and Caribbean unity,
enhancing cooperation with the peoples of the South, and
building a multicentric and multipolar world, without
imperial hegemonies. Similarly, he is guaranteeing the
continuity of a national policy based on social justice.
The successes of the Bolivarian Revolution are
evident. Venezuela has met the targets set by the
Millennium Development Goals before 2015. The
number of households in extreme poverty has fallen
dramatically, from 21 per cent in 1998 to 7 per cent
in 2010. Social investment in my country is among
the highest in the world. Venezuela has the highest
minimum wage in Latin America and the Caribbean.
According to the Gini coefficient, our country is the
most egalitarian in Latin America and the Caribbean.
According to the Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations, we are ranked tenth among the
best-fed peoples in the world. We are the country with
the fifth-highest percentage of university enrolment
in the world. Education and health care are free. All
Venezuelans, without exception, have access to those
rights.
Those extraordinary achievements in economic,
social and cultural rights have been attained in the
context of a participatory democracy, in which civil
and political rights are fully respected, as never before
in our country’s history. The Venezuelan people have
regained their sovereignty and self-determination. A
revolution for freedom, justice and equality is under
way. That is the Bolivarian revolution.

===== Session 68 - 2013 =====
At the outset, on behalf 
of the people and the President of the Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela, Mr. Nicolás Maduro Moros, I 
would like to convey to General Assembly President 
John Ashe our congratulations on his recent election to 
lead this organ of the United Nations. 

As is known, President Maduro Moros is not here 
at this session of the General Assembly because of a 
whole range of delays, obstacles, conditions imposed 
and lack of guarantees for him and members of his 
delegation, imposed by the Government of the United 
States in flagrant violation of the obligations incumbent 
upon it under the Headquarters Agreement. Despite 



that, we have come here on behalf of the people of the 
liberator, Simón Bolívar, to speak the truth and to ask 
some questions, firmly but respectfully, as we learned 
from our leader, Hugo Chávez Frías, who passed away 
in March. In that regard, on behalf of my people, I 
should like to express our gratitude for the heartfelt 
tribute paid to President Chávez Frías last March (see 
A/67/PV.67).

How happy we would be to be here if we were 
really in a place where we realized the noble ideals 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. The 
Charter talks about saving succeeding generations 
from the scourge of war, but the truth is that various 
military interventions have been decided upon or have 
been allowed here that have engulfed countries and 
whole regions of the world in long wars and instability. 
The Security Council has been taken hostage by the 
hawks of war, and when they can, they justify their 
attacks from there; when they cannot, they simply bang 
on the table and still do whatever they want, which is 
what they are doing when they declare that there will be 
future bombings in the Syrian Arab Republic.

The Charter also states that the purpose of the 
Organization is to preserve international peace and 
security. But let me ask: How do some members of the 
Security Council think we can achieve that purpose by 
arming and protecting terrorist groups such as Jabhat 
Al-Nusra and Al-Qaida, which are obscurantist forces? 
Many of those groups are linked to horrible acts such as 
the destruction of the Twin Towers in this very city. They 
deny the existence of anybody who thinks differently 
from them — whether they be Christians, Muslims 
or Jews — and profess special hatred and rejection of 
women. Why are such groups supported? Why do some 
members of the Security Council sponsor such terrorist 
groups, window-dressing them as political opposition 
and even allowing them to give press conferences at this 
venue? What would representatives of Governments 
with ongoing internal armed conflicts say if the violent 
groups they faced were to be given space and a voice 
here at Headquarters to justify their downfall?

The Preamble of the Charter also sets out another 
noble goal: to promote social progress and raise the 
standard of living in a broader concept of freedom. 
In reality, however, poverty, hunger and injustice are 
continuing to grow and the standard of living and the 
standard of freedoms are falling lower and lower. That 
is because what is imposed on us is a model of excluding 
others — a neo-fascist model — a neo-liberal model.

In the meantime, countries such as Venezuela 
have chosen the path to consolidate real democracy 
with a socialist system, including the people, and that 
has enabled us to reach the Millennium Development 
Goals. Yet we are constantly attacked and demonized 
and our political and social stability is being disrupted. 
That is what is happening at this very moment with 
the anti-democratic opposition in our country, which 
is being supported by media corporations in the region 
and from the whole world.

Paragraph 4, Article 2, of the Charter of the United 
Nations emphatically states that 

“All members shall refrain in their international 
relations from the threat or use of force against the 
territorial integrity or political independence of 
any state”. 
Yet the President of the United States — and there is 
the additional irritant that he is a Nobel Peace Prize 
laureate — is threatening to bomb this or that country if 
it does not comply with his country’s unilateral demands, 
which can even include removing a Government that 
the United States Government does not like. Perhaps 
that could explain why, despite the fact that the Charter 
talks about the equality of large and small nations, the 
President of the United States said just a couple of days 
ago that the United States was “exceptional”. Does that 
mean that they are not equal with the other 192 States 
Member States represented here?
The gap today between the noble ideals of the 
Charter and what is happening by act or omission 
here in the Organization is truly alarming. Why does 
nobody in the General Assembly venture to propose 
that sanctions be imposed for open violations of the 
Charter on the Government that has an illegal detention 
centre in the military base at Guantánamo, in occupied 
Cuban territory, where torture and cruel and degrading 
and inhuman treatment is being meted out to persons? 

Why does nobody discuss sanctions against 
the President who has admitted to illegal espionage 
activities against Heads of State and Government 
represented here? That was a point courageously 
made by the President of Brazil, Dilma Rousseff (see 
A/68/PV.5).

Why do we not consider the use of unpiloted 
planes — so-called drones — which have taken the 
lives of tens of thousands of innocent victims, including 



children and old people, in North Africa, the Middle 
East and parts of Asia to be crimes against humanity? 

Why do we not impose sanctions against a 
Government that for more than 50 years has maintained 
an illegal and criminal economic blockade against the 
worthy Cuban people, and flouted decisions adopted by 
overwhelming majorities in the Assembly in favour of 
ending the embargo?

Why do we not implement the resolutions adopted 
by the plenary so that the State of Palestine can be 
established as a peaceful, just and lasting solution to 
the ongoing Arab-Israeli conflict? 

Why does the United Kingdom not agree to start 
negotiations with Argentina to resolve in a peaceful 
way demands over the Malvinas Islands? Might it 
perchance be because the elite of the United States and 
some of its allies are exceptional?

We raise those questions for consideration when it 
comes to the future of humankind, on behalf of the people 
of Simón Bolívar — the people of Venezuela — who 
love peace, equality and freedom. 

Venezuela has come before the General Assembly 
today to condemn a kidnapping. The Organization has 
been kidnapped. The peace and dignity of the world 
are being held hostage in New York. The kidnapper has 
many faces. It changes names and sometimes even flags, 
but it continues to be the same old imperalism. Eight 
years ago, Commander Hugo Chávez Frías — a tireless 
defender of genuine peace, not the peace imposed by 
bombs, and of participatory democracy and a leader 
for unity among peoples — called here for a genuine 
transformation of the United Nations. Seven years ago, 
he said that there was a whiff of sulphur here (see A/61/
PV.12). Today, alas, I have to say once again that there is 
still a whiff of sulphur coming from those who consider 
themselves exceptional.

Those words are truer now than ever before. The 
courageous revelations of one young man offered a 
great service to humankind — let us call it a wake-up 
call. As a result, he is now being persecuted politically 
and cannot walk freely in the streets of Manhattan. We 
hope that Edward Snowden will one day be able to walk 
freely among a future generation of Americans who 
have taken back their civil rights and helped to ensure 
peace in the world. That young man has shown us how 
the privacy of every human being has been violated by 
the most complex and sophisticated spying system that 
humankind has ever been able to come up with.

Thanks to those revelations this year, we have 
woken up to discover that George Orwell’s 1984 is 
now here. And what is the United Nations doing about 
that? Who is setting limits on so much arbitrariness 
and running roughshod? Those are yet more questions 
that find no answers from the General Assembly or the 
Security Council of the Organization, which is now 
almost 68 years old.

We would like to suggest that the Secretary-General 
set up a body within the United Nations to ensure for 
every inhabitant in the world the right to privacy and 
the right to communicate without interception. Much 
has been said here calling for peace, but that has often 
fallen on deaf ears. Let us hope that we will all learn 
how important it is to listen to the calls of the people for 
peace, and employ that in tirelessly seeking to elevate 
human dignity as our guiding star.

President John Kennedy spoke from this rostrum 
50 years ago, the last time he would do so at the United 
Nations before being assassinated. How good it would 
be if his current successor, and many people here, 
were to re-read just some of what he said. Whatever 
differences we may have had with that historic figure, 
ensuring peace requires that we seek out areas of 
agreement such as this:

“For the value of this body’s work is not 
dependent on the existence of emergencies — nor 
can the winning of peace consist only of dramatic 
victories. Peace is a daily, a weekly, a monthly 
process, gradually changing opinions, slowly 
eroding old barriers, quietly building new 
structures. And, however undramatic the pursuit of 
peace, that pursuit must go on.” (A/PV.1209, p. 5)
Let us hope that the leaders of the United States and 
those that follow them blindly will think deeply about 
the meaning of what Kennedy said and realize that if 
they really want to be exceptional, they have to find 
exceptional ways of bringing about lasting peace in the 
world.
In Latin America and the Caribbean we are 
showing that with exceptional decisions and actions we 
can build a world of peace. Unity in diversity is what 
we have in our regional organizations: the Bolivarian 
Alliance for the Peoples of Our America, the 
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, 



the Union of South American Nations, the Common 
Market of the South and Petrocaribe. All those are tools 
for democratizing our societies that promote socially 
inclusive economic development and ensure political 
stability. Despite various internal disputes and conflicts 
between fraternal countries, we have been able to find 
mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of conflict. We 
have demonstrated that without military intervention, 
drones or economic blockades, we can build and 
preserve genuine democracy and move forward in 
combating hunger, poverty and inequality.

The Venezuelan nation is proud of being part of a 
region that is free of weapons of mass destruction. We 
reaffirm our commitment to encouraging the complete 
elimination of nuclear weapons and chemical and 
bacteriological weapons as a way of ensuring that life 
can continue on planet Earth.

In his various statements before the Assembly, 
Commander Chávez Frías called for improving the 
means for addressing problems and resolving conflicts 
in a transparent manner. He also pointed out that, in 
the face of today’s reality, there was a crucial need 
to consider whether the Headquarters of the United 
Nations should be here in this country where the 
Government does not respect the Organization, much 
less the sovereignty of each and every State Member. 
The United Nations should be in a place where there 
is respect for all Members; where the political will 
flourishes, without pressure or fear, to end conflict in 
the world through dialogue; where the path forward 
is genuine social development and the elimination of 
hunger and poverty; and where what matters is how to 
stop war, not how to justify it.

Let us take the United Nations to the South, where 
the antithesis to exclusion — solidarity — has often 
taught us that we are in fact all equal. For now, we 
welcome the proposal of President Evo Morales Ayma 
that we should meet in the Organization’s various other 
headquarters in different parts of the world. Beyond the 
shadows that seem to darken the future of the human 
race, from Latin America and the Caribbean we are 
saying and showing that another world is possible 
where all of us can, in peace and dignity and with 
justice, enjoy lives worth living.


===== Session 69 - 2014 =====
At 
the outset, as this is the first time that I am attending in 
my capacity as the President of the Bolivarian Republic 
of Venezuela, I wish to thank the General Assembly, 
all its representative Governments and the various 
bodies of the United Nations system for the heartfelt 
tribute that was paid simultaneously at United Nations 
Headquarters in New York, in Geneva and other 

places in the world to an extraordinary human being, 
Commander Hugo Chávez, who always carried the 
banners of peace, equality and respect for our peoples. 
That is the first thing I wish to convey from my heart 
on behalf of the people of Venezuela and to recall and 
invoke his spirit of tackling imperialism and injustice.

We have had debates for several decades now on the 
need to reform the Organization, and various Presidents 
that have presided over the Assembly. This morning, I 
strongly reminded Presidents Dilma Rousseff, Cristina 
Fernández, Evo Morales Ayma and other Presidents 
of the Americas of the need to reorient, readjust and 
tweak the entire United Nations system. This system 
has been in place for 70 years since the end of the so-
called Second World War, which took place in Europe 
and other parts of the world between 1939 and 1945.

The United Nations Charter is one of the most 
beautiful poems that we could ever read. It has well 
and truly become an instrument that has been set 
aside, overlooked and consistently flouted in terms of 
its fundamental objectives are concerned. The United 
Nations is an historic human experiment that has become 
a landmark because never before has humankind had 
a forum to meet to address issues of peace, affecting 
life and death, and to negotiate solutions to conflicts. 
After 7,000 years of civilization as we know it — a 
review of which reveals a history of empires and the 
ongoing battle to distribute the wealth and territory of 
the world — only with the establishment of this system 
in 1945 did we begin to get a glimpse of future light 
at the end of a long tunnel of battles, wars and global 
conflicts.

We call for the renewed relevance of the United 
Nations, above and beyond any criticism that may be 
levelled against it. Given the human importance of 
this institution, we insist on the need for an in-depth 
transformation, as Commander Hugo Chávez said on 
many occasions right here in this Hall. In his famous 
statements in defence of the causes of humankind, 
he stressed the need for a far-reaching democratic 
overhaul of the United Nations system. As President 
Jacob Zuma of our sister country South Africa said, we 
must democratize and overhaul the Security Council.

The role of the regions today is different from 
what it was in 1945. This is another world. The United 
Nations was born to deal with post-war reconstruction 
and the issues that had given rise to conflicts. The 
United Nations has to deal today with a multicentric, 
multipolar world of numerous actors, with emerging 
countries and regions that have their own thoughts, 
aspirations and desire to be respected in this world. The 
United Nations has to adapt and submit to the broader 
sovereignty of the peoples of this world, who are crying 
out for their voices to be heard, heeded and respected.

We have heard speeches today at the start of this 
sixty-ninth session. We also believe in strengthening the 
role of the Secretary-General. As we have said so many 
times we must have a Secretary-General who represents 
all of us and who has the political and institutional 
clout to find solutions to the world’s conflicts. We must 
reconfigure the system and functions of the General 
Assembly. We must democratize it and give it a leading 
role to ensure that the great debates that take place here 
can always successfully address the major issues facing 
the world. That is why we believe that we must build a 
new United Nations in a bid for a new multipolar world 
of peace where there no empire can impose its will on a 
unipolar world. This is urgent for the entire world.

Above and beyond what officials of the various 
Governments represented in this Hall may believe, 
we already have another world where we all wish to 
speak, think and decide our own fate and to achieve 
peace for our peoples. A new regionalism has come to 
the fore. In the late 1940s and the 1950s, we saw the 
birth of the European Union as an experiment in the 
new regionalism that is admired and emulated by many 
throughout the world. In the 1970s and 1980s, we saw 
the emergence of the Organization of African Unity, an 
extraordinary system to organize the brotherly African 
continent to address the issues of development and 
life. Our mother Africa was one of the most suffering 
regions the world.

Now as we embark on the twenty-first century, 
Latin America is taking its place. We have seen new 
organizations arise in Latin America. On 14 December, 
we will commemorate in Havana, Cuba, a heroic 
island and great homeland, the tenth anniversary of 
the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas. We have 
assumed an important role in building a new social 
and economic order in defence of such major causes 
as climate change. In existence for 10 years now, that 
youthful organization, partnership or alliance is now 
looking forward to the rest of the twenty-first century.

I would also mention Petrocaribe and its 
18 brotherly member States. I hope I may be forgiven if 
I seem immodest, but PetroCaribe is a model that best 
shows how we can have a new world of peace, justice, 
solidarity, cooperation and complementarity among 


nations. To the powerful of the world, those who wield 
all the capital and all the economic power, I say that we 
can have another world. We are starting to build it in 
the Americas.

Also emerging is the Union of South American 
Nations (UNASUR), representing a new southern 
regionalism that was founded on 16 April 2007 with the 
participation of new leaders in Latin America and our 
Commander Hugo Chávez. It is a most interesting and 
important bloc that is now starting to forge ties with the 
rest of the emerging world.

We recently held a very interesting and important 
meeting for the remainder of the decade between the 
BRICS countries — Brazil, Russia, India, China and 
South Africa, who represent the hope for development 
through new mechanisms — and UNASUR in Brasilia, 
and we decided to share our experiences. The BRICS 
Bank and the Banco del Sur would be a new financial 
architecture for the world that must emerge from this 
new regionalism. The Community of Latin American 
and Caribbean States (CELAC) was established on 
3 December 2011 in Caracas, and is already growing 
strong. We have held summits in Santiago de Chile and 
Havana and will hold another in San José in January. 
All of Latin America is coming together optimistically 
in this new regionalism.

Based on this experience, we are seeing new 
structures arise towards the establishment of a road 
map for overhauling the United Nations system. Let 
the call for reform of the Organization not fall through 
the cracks here in this Hall. We must find the way. 
We must try to come up with a common road map for 
humankding because we need it if we are to tackle the 
major issues before us.

For 22 years, the United Nations has customarily 
voted with record insistence for a cause that is not 
just a cause of the Americas but one espoused by the 
peoples and Governments of this world. I speak of the 
rejection of the economic embargo against our brother 
Republic of Cuba — an anachronistic vestige of the 
Cold War. The President of Estonia spoke earlier about 
the anachronisms of the Cold War and the systems of 
economic persecution used to impose political regimes 
and subjugate peoples. We are here on behalf of the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela to confirm our support 
for the 50-year struggle of the people and Government 
of Cuba against the criminal blockade. I ask President 
Obama: When will you seize the opportunity to go 
down in history by putting an end once and for all to the 
criminal economic and trade embargo and persecution 
of our brother country of Cuba?

We also see new causes arise in the current 
struggles facing our region. We have taken them on in 
unison. I wish here to recognize as a great step forward 
the decision taken by the General Assembly two weeks 
ago in support of the Argentine Republic and President 
Cristina Fernández in her struggle against the financial 
plundering of the vulture funds. We want to support her 
in every way we can to ensure that the General Assembly, 
in accordance with the proposal of the Group of 77 
and China and in as timely and efficient a manner as 
possible, drafts a high-quality document mandating the 
defence of the nations represented by the Organization, 
especially the poor countries of the developing world, 
against vulture funds that seek to plunder our economies 
and impose detrimental economic, institutional and 
political systems. We confirm the full solidarity of the 
people of Venezuela with the people of Argentina, and 
indeed the solidarity of the CELAC countries. Let us 
move towards this historic decision. We received 124 
votes in favour last week.

As we did at the CELAC summit in Havana, 
Venezuela also calls on the United Nations to support as 
closely and warmly as it can and enforce the decisions 
calling on the United States of America to enforce and 
execute a decolonization plan for Puerto Rico. Puerto 
Rico was invited to join CELAC because it is Caribbean 
and it is ours. We raise our voice to make it heard in this 
Hall to call for the release of a man whose name many 
here will hear for the first time. President Jacob Zuma 
of South Africa spoke of the great Madiba, Nelson 
Mandela, who was forgotten for many years, despite 
the fact that many now claim him as a representative 
of their causes. That is fine. Nelson Mandela represents 
the human capacity of resilience and resistance enjoyed 
by people as they seek to achieve the objectives of 
justice and peace.

That is why I raise the name of a man who almost 
35 years ago was imprisoned and has been subjected 
to torture — a man with a family, a man from Latin 
America and the Caribbean, a man like us. We are 
talking about the Puerto Rican Oscar López Rivera, the 
longest-held political prisoner who remains in a United 
States prison to this day. We demand his immediate 
release. His only sin was to fight for independence and 
to defend the beautiful flag and star of the dignity of 
our sister country of Puerto Rico. These are the causes 
of this historic moment.


Venezuela is in the midst of a people’s democratic 
revolution that began with an unimpeachable 
constitutional event. For the first time in the history 
of our country, the Constitution of the Republic was 
debated by the people and approved by a referendum 
with the participation of the sovereign vote of the 
people of Venezuela in 1999. Since then, we have been 
developing and carrying out a process of political and 
social liberation.

We are trying to overcome poverty. In 2015, we 
will have the post-2015 development agenda and the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) will be over. 
Through great effort, the Bolivarian Venezuela led 
by our Commander Hugo Chávez, was fortunately 
able achieve practically all the MDGs. We have an 
enrolment rate of more than 90 per cent in almost all 
schools, and we offer free, quality education from basic 
schools through to universities. We have lowered the 
unemployment rate from 20 per cent five years ago to 
5.5 per cent at the end of last year. We have changed 
the curves. We had vulnerable employment to the 
tune of 60 per cent; now, 60 per cent of those jobs are 
protected by social security, and are remunerated at a 
fair, regulated rate.

I could spend hours here talking of the progress we 
have made towards the MDGs. We have been able to 
salvage our oil wealth. I am sure Members will know 
that we have the largest oil reserves on the planet in 
the beautiful Orinoco basin, and we have the largest oil 
fields there. For the first time in 90 years, we recovered 
full control over our own petroleum resources as the 
anchor for our economic and social development. 
Venezuela has had to suffer ongoing harassment and 
persecution at the hands of the imperial forces and the 
allies of the United States empire, who have sought 
again and again to undermine our democracy. One such 
attempt was the attempted coup against Hugo Chávez. 
Following his death on 5 March 2013, those forces 
resumed their activities to undermine our country. I 
thank the Governments of the world for their solidarity 
with Venezuela, which has been struggling and 
resisting. They could not prevail against Hugo Chávez 
and they cannot prevail against us. We are still on the 
path towards revolution, democracy, independence and 
dignity, with our own voice speaking to the world.

There are major problems that we now have 
to address at this point. As members well know, 
one such problem — perhaps the greatest threat of 
all — is the virus that causes Ebola haemorrhagic fever. 
If this world and our United Nations system had been 
somewhat more humane, we would have focused on 
lending our support to tackling this real threat instead 
of sending drones, missiles and bombs to destroy the 
people of Gaza or to bomb the people of Iraq and Syria. 
The President of Chad announced that his country had 
decided to donate $2 million to the Ebola fund. The 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is going to be giving 
$5 million to the fund to support Africa and the needy 
people of the world.

Let us be clear. We should be discussing the 
scientific reports here and taking decisions based 
on those reports. We should be focused on another 
important issue affecting the survival of humankind on 
this Earth — climate change. A poem of the indigenous 
peoples of the Americas, which was read out yesterday, 
says that after they can no longer poison the rivers, 
after they have poisoned our lakes, once there is not 
even one fish left to eat, then the powerful of the 
world will have to eat each other. They want to create 
extraneous formulas when all they need to do is to make 
an extraordinary effort and recognize climate change 
as a climatic emergency. We should not just make 
speeches and vague offers; we must restore sanity to 
the Organization if we are to strengthen it, and place at 
the forefront of our agenda the real common problems 
facing us.

Today in the Security Council, they adopted a 
series of decisions in a bid to combat terrorism. Let 
us be clear: we must combat terrorism. The Bolivarian 
Alliance for the Peoples of Our America has been 
condemning terrorism for more than a year and a 
half. We are deeply pained by the murder of Western 
journalists and the dastardly acts of these terrorists, but 
a year and a half ago when boys and girls were captured 
by these terrorist and other groups in Syria, we were not 
that pained at that time. They were beheading women 
in mosques. The pain should be the same.

Should our pain be greater depending on the colour 
or origin of the skin of a person or the origin of that 
person? The loss of human lives should pain us all, and 
we therefore condemn the terrorist attack perpetrated 
by NATO and its allies to change the regime in Syria. 
I am here to say, with force of truth, on behalf of the 
Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America 
and my Government, that if the Government of Syria 
had been overthrown by those imperial attacks, today 
in that entire region of Syria, Lebanon, Iraq and Jordan 
we would see the power of those terrorists take root.


As painful as it may be, we have to say that President 
Bashar Al-Assad and the democratic and constitutional 
Government of Syria has always combated terrorism 
and has suffered thousands of deaths. We believe that 
instead of the continual, demented bombing, must 
strike a great alliance of peace against terrorism, 
respecting the sovereignty of countries and sovereign 
Governments throughout that region. I would ask the 
delegation of the United States take note of this message 
and convey it to President Obama.

Only an alliance that respects the sovereignty 
of those nations, along with the cooperation of 
their Governments, peoples and armed forces, will 
overthrow the Islamic State and the terrorist forces 
advancing like monster against the West. There is no 
other way to overthrow them — certainly not with 
bombs that kill mostly the innocent. They never kill the 
armed forces; they always kill the innocent. After so 
much death and bombing of the brotherly Arab people 
of Iraq, we have to invite the sovereign Governments 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, 
Jordan and Egypt and indeed the entire region to come 
up with a comprehensive political, military, cultural 
and communication strategy that can be supported by 
the Security Council. Anything else is crazy.

Let us consider what happened in Libya, as noted 
by the President of Chad. It only fomented hatred and 
an anti-Al-Qadhafi front. What is happening in Libya? 
It has become a territory for trafficking in arms and 
explosives by terrorist groups fighting for scraps of 
territory. We have seen the end of the beautiful history 
of the people of our brother country of Libya. It is a 
crazy race towards more violence and terrorism. A 
more dangerous world has emerged from the demented 
work of those who lead and make decisions in the 
Organization.

We humbly lend our voice and our proposal to the 
table, and we do so with genuine love. That is how we 
show our solidarity with the people of Palestine. We in 
the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America 
will continue to show our solidarity with them. 
Venezuela, as Members know, has opened a modest 
air-bridge to provide logistical support, food, blankets 
and medicines in support of the people of Palestine who 
recently suffered a brutal attack. We want peace, total 
peace. Our Organization needs to be overhauled so that 
everyone can enjoy total peace. It is not through the 
threat of the use of force, or the use of force, or internal 
competition to overthrow Governments such as the 
one that I lead, that we will have stable peace. No, it 
is respect for international law that will lead to stable 
peace and full security.

Lastly, I wish to thank the General Assembly for 
its support. Next year, 2015, Venezuela, with members’ 
support, will assume leadership of the Non-Aligned 
Movement for the next three years. We humbly aspire 
to play a genuine role in mobilizing and revitalizing the 
entire process of United Nations reform. The process 
must include the elaboration of an agenda of world 
priorities in which we will all have a voice and a vote, 
and no one can impose their will on the others. Next 
year, delegations from throughout the world will be 
welcome at the historic Summit of the Non-Aligned 
Movement in Caracas.


===== Session 70 - 2015 =====
We are assembled here in 2015, once again fully aware of the immense struggle of our peoples to arrive at an age of dignity, a time when there will finally be a world that respects the distinct identities of all our peoples, This year, Venezuela celebrates the 200th anniversary of a prophetic document written by our liberator, Simón Bolívar. I am speaking of the letter that he wrote 200 years ago in Kingston, Jamaica, a beautiful island of the Caribbean, at the exact moment when the liberation forces began their ascent from the depths of history after hundreds of years of colonial domination of our lands — today Latin America and the Caribbean. The purpose of that letter was to define the nature of their struggles and outline the path they needed to follow. In it, Simón Bolívar defined the elements of a geopolitical vision for the Americas — a non-imperialist, non-colonialist geopolitical vision that, in twenty- first century terms, we might call anti-imperialist and anti-colonialist. Two hundred years ago, he set down the conceptual lines of the geopolitical thesis we continue to support today to address the need to establish a balanced universe and a world with justice and peace for all. For 200 years we have drawn inspiration from that prophetic letter. And, only a few days ago, here in our common home of humankind, Pope Francis renewed Simón Bolívar’s message (see A/70/PV.3), saying that we need a new form of geopolitics, a new approach, a new world, a geopolitical vision based on respect for the different peoples of the world and for their different identities and models; in other words, a policy of coexistence and of peace with justice and
equality. He called for a political approach that rejects the imposition of all forms of hegemony, whether through the threat or use of force, and all attempts at financial, economic, cultural, military and political hegemony.
This year we also celebrate the seventieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations. Those 70 years have sped by, like a fast-forwarded movie, while we undertook the most important search in human history, namely, the search for ways to settle our differences and to build a world that fulfils everyone’s hopes, a world without exclusion or discrimination. Humankind has been able to celebrate some successes in those 70 years.
In 1945, the Charter of the United Nations was written in the aftermath of the Second World War. While the tragedy that destroyed half of the planet and took millions of innocent lives was still fresh in everyone’s mind, humankind came together to write that Charter and, with it, to spell out its dreams. For 70 years, the Preamble of the Charter has continued to announce emphatically that we the peoples of the United Nations are determined to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. Today, in 2015, we the peoples of the world announce that we are ready to save humankind from the scourges of inequality, poverty, looting and exploitation, which are the true causes of all the wars that we have known.
During those 70 years, we witnessed the birth of a dyadic world — aptly named because of the two factions involved — that, in the form of the Cold War and the resulting real and painful wars, left their mark on the second half of the 1940s and the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s. Later, with the collapse of the Soviet Union, we saw the emergence of a menacing monadic world that claimed that it had a panacea that could cure all our ills and rid us of false ideologies. In the 1990s, in that world, one way of thinking and one economic model were imposed on us. That was the era of neoliberalism, an era that sowed poverty and extreme need, owing to the privatization of the natural resources and economies of peoples of the South. In general, it sowed misery, sickness and unemployment throughout the world.
A dyadic world characterized by confrontation was succeeded by a monadic world, in which an intolerable situation was inflicted upon us. The dawn of the twenty-first century, thanks to God and thanks to the work of the people, saw the rise of a revolutionary elan in the Venezuelan people, who have, in turn, inspired
6/26 15-29437

29/09/2015 A/70/PV.17
the constructive revolution of the peoples of the South, in Latin America and in the Caribbean.
In this new century, the time has finally come to build a multipolar world — a multi-centred world; a world without hegemony; a world of equals; a world in which the other’s points of view are respected; a world that acknowledges the weight that should be given to emerging centres of political, economic and cultural power; a world that recognizes the new regionalisms that are gaining in strength in the various parts of the world; a world that ushers in a new era and recognizes the values set down in the inspiring words of the Charter of the United Nations by ensuring that the rights to human dignity, self-determination, independence and life are realized for all peoples.
This multipolar and multi-centred world encompasses major themes. In this Hall, we have listened to the speeches made from this rostrum. Yesterday, we heard the speeches of President Dilma Rousseff, from our brother country, Brazil, and President Barack Obama of the United States of America. We saw President Vladimir Putin shine as one of the most important leaders in the world today. We saw Presidents Xi Jinping, Raúl Castro, Evo Morales Ayma, Rafael Correa, Cristina Fernández. We have followed attentively the discussion of the topics that are the subject of this debate. We have listened to what was said on the issues of war and peace. I believe that today no one in this Hall, or in any other forum, could offer a single word in defence of the unjust wars that have destroyed our brother peoples in Africa, Asia and the Middle East.
Today, taking inspiration from the rebelling and clarion voice of the people of Venezuela, we need to acknowledge the tragic errors that were committed when our brother nations were invaded, bombed and waged war on. Today, we should acknowledge that the four wars that the world has seen during the past decade and a half have caused major systems within the United Nations to fail. With regard to the war in Afghanistan, we should ask ourselves and our brothers, the people of Afghanistan: did it bring peace? Did it bring stability? Did it bring life to the people of Afghanistan? Or did it bring more misery, destruction and terrorism? The war in Iraq was inspired by manipulation and lies and had only one goal: to conquer Iraq. It had only one objective: to take Iraq’s oil and natural riches. Twelve years later, can we say that Iraq is a more united, more peace-filled or more stable country? We should say to those who staged the war in Iraq that once again, through war,
they have failed and caused international politics to fail. And Libya? The words that Commandant Hugo Chávez Frías pronounced in this very Hall are fresh in our memory. He warned of the lies used to justify the bombing and conquest of Libya. Whatever political differences one country may have with another’s leadership or Government, it is not entitled, under the Charter of the United Nations or pursuant to any other mandate, to challenge or judge the political authority of that leadership or to overthrow that Government. No one is authorized to do that.
All this is distressing for us. We love the Arab peoples. We admire their ancient culture. We admire the Muslim peoples. Today, it pains me to say what I think is universally acknowledged, that what happened in Libya was a crime. A stable country, which, in its turn, sustained the stability of a score of other North African and African countries, was destroyed. Libya was the founder of the African Union, but what is Libya now? The people of Venezuela are asking if Libya is a more stable country economically and socially? Is it a united country? Is it a country? Is it a country at peace? And who will pay for the crimes in Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan? Who will acknowledge them? And what will happen to Syria? The situation there brings to mind one of those horror films made in Hollywood. The horror in Syria is created by the politics of terror and the terror of war.
With all due modesty and humility, we in Venezuela believe that the United Nations system still has time to prevent a worse tragedy in Syria, a tragedy of even more terrifying and shocking proportions than those that befell Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. Humankind still has time to create a new alliance of peace. We support the proposal put forth by the President of the Russian Federation, Mr. Vladimir Putin, on the creation of a new alliance of peace. Venezuela, as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, will submit another proposal with a view to protecting the people of Syria and putting up a real fight against the groups that, instigated and financed by the West, have been sowing terror, death and destruction. Humankind must lend its support and assistance to Syria for the salvation of the surrounding region.
Our fellow citizens in Europe would be wrong to believe that they can escape the consequences of the humanitarian tragedy in Syria, or to think that mass exoduses of Syrians will not reach their shores and lands, exerting an impact on the entire European civilization.
15-29437 7/26

A/70/PV.17 29/09/2015
The United Nations must wake up and react to the tragedy in Syria. We must learn from the resounding and tragic failure of the four wars I just mentioned and initiate, in the Security Council and the United Nations system, the establishment of a new regulatory system prohibiting the use of interventionist methods to cause war, spread terror and bring destruction and death to peoples declared undesirable or unfriendly by world elites.
We must overcome huge challenges in order to achieve peace. I believe that on this there is general consensus, because we have heard even President Obama say that there is no development without peace. We have heard that the philosophy of peace has been gaining ground among major world leaders. Only peace can guarantee the viability of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (resolution 70/1), a noble plan for making progress towards achieving equality and overcoming poverty. Only peace can guarantee the viability of development in international relations on our planet. There are therefore huge challenges facing the United Nations system.
A new regionalist approach is being developed in Latin America. This is good news for our Latin American and Caribbean region. In recent years, Latin America has rediscovered the path to unity and independence, to unity in diversity and to a common search. Today, in 2015, we can justifiably say here at the United Nations that Latin America has been consolidating the strength of its new communities. At their historic Summit in Havana, the Latin American and Caribbean States declared Latin America a zone of peace. The path of our region is heading in that direction. Subregional bodies, such as Petrocaribe and the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America, and powerful subregional bodies that operate collectively, such as the Union of South American Nations (UNASUR), have created a new reality on our continent. We still have one armed conflict to settle: the 60-year-old internal war and conflict in Colombia. On behalf of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, we congratulate Colombia on the welcome steps taken by President Juan Manuel Santos Calderón in order to make progress towards a conclusive peace agreement with the guerrillas of the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia. Venezuela is betting heavily on the strengthening of the path of peace in Colombia — that Colombia which was the beautiful dream of our Liberator and the fine creation of our liberators.
In addition, Latin America is speaking with one voice. We will demonstrate this once again on 28 October. President Raúl Castro Ruz and our comrade Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla have announced that the issue of the embargo of the United States against Cuba will be discussed by the General Assembly on 28 October. We acknowledge the steps taken in 2015 for the normalization and regularization of relations, based on respect between the Government of President Barack Obama and the Government of President Raúl Castro Ruz, between the United States of America and Cuba.
We say to the United States Government that we look forward to the day when the relations of its Government with all the Governments of Latin America and the Caribbean enjoy the same treatment in terms of dialogue, respect and recognition as Cuba receives today. We are waiting for the United States to turn the page on a history of interventionism and coups d’état, and of attempts to disrupt revolutionary processes, as occurred in Venezuela and with the long hostility towards Cuba, which lasted for 56 years and consisted of the embargo and economic and financial persecution. That history must not be repeated. The financial and economic blockade and the persecution suffered by Cuba must end as soon as possible.
Just as President Jimmy Carter in 1979 signed the agreement to return the sovereignty of the Panama Canal to the Panamanians, we hope that soon the United States will return the Guantanamo Base and territory to the Cuban people, who have historically been its owners.
The good news is possible only because of the perseverance of the Cuban people and their proud and rebellious spirit, which, like the beauty of Cuba, has remained resilient throughout all these years of struggle. It has also been possible, we must admit, because of the courage of President Barack Obama in assuming a new policy towards Cuba.
In the same spirit, we support and echo the appeal of the Latin American and Caribbean nations to the Government of the United Kingdom to decide sooner rather than later that it will sit down and negotiate, in accordance with international law and via peaceful diplomacy and understanding, the right of Argentina to the Malvinas Islands, South Sandwich and the rest of the surrounding islands that, beyond a shadow of a doubt, historically belong to Argentina. It is an appeal made
8/26 15-29437

29/09/2015 A/70/PV.17
by the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), the Non-Aligned Movement, the Group of 77 and China, and all who support peaceful diplomacy, dialogue and communication. It is an appeal that must be answered.
Venezuela has been facing significant challenges in recent years in its endeavour to create an eminently Venezuelan social, economic and political model, an endeavour inspired by the doctrine of Liberator Simón Bolívar. It has chosen the human option in the battle that our brother President Evo Morales Ayma referred to yesterday (see A/70/PV.15) and the option that Pope Francis described as eminently humanistic (see A/70/PV.3). Venezuela has opted to build a new society — the socialist society. It is a twenty-first- century socialist revolution that joins such other revolutions of independence in Latin America as those in Bolivia, Ecuador and Nicaragua. Venezuela is on the same path as the historic Cuban revolution and is following the example of Commander Fidel Castro Ruz, President Raúl Castro Ruz and the Cuban people.
Our people have waged a great battle while facing domestic and foreign conspiracies. Recently, we had to deal with major conspiracies and grave attacks. Earlier this year, we had to have a public debate on a threatening executive order issued, on 9 March, by President Barack Obama, which declared Venezuela an unusual and extraordinary threat to the people of the United States. I think that the debate at the Summit of the Americas in Panama in April accurately clarified the real meaning of the thinking underlying the order. The statement of President Obama recognizing that Venezuela was a country of peace and is not and never has been a threat to the United States is a very positive step. However, I must say, as Head of State and Government, it is not enough. The order issued on 9 March must be repealed and annulled, because it is a threat to my homeland and my country. We have initiated talks with the Government of the United States, in the same spirit in which Cuba initiated a respectful dialogue and communication, so that sooner rather than later we can remove the sword of Damocles — the order of 9 March — that hangs above the heads of the Venezuelan people.
This year also, as we reported nationally and internationally, Venezuela had to use peaceful diplomacy to lift the threat of conflicts along our border. I reported, and I do so respectfully now in the General Assembly, a pincer operation aimed at causing conflicts along the borders with Colombia and
with our sister Republic of Guyana. A week ago, we were in Quito, summoned by CELAC and UNASUR, and together with President Juan Manuel Santos Calderón, we were able to define a way of clearing the provocations, threats and attacks by paramilitaries and drug traffickers against Venezuela. That is being done, and I am now able to say that I have strong hopes that we will be able to complete the process and then restore normal working relations and communications with the Government of Colombia.
Similarly, with the new Government of Guyana, there were a number of issues that needed to be resolved within the regional framework. I want to thank Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for answering the call of Venezuela and convening a meeting on Sunday, 27 September, the day of the blood moon and the eclipse. While the blood moon was rising, we met with the President of Guyana, Mr. David Granger. Again, I am glad to say that peaceful diplomacy prevailed and allowed us to successfully take steps in connection with a historical claim that Venezuela has had since 1835.
The Bolivarian Revolution of Venezuela therefore will continue to address the threats and difficult circumstances with Bolivarian peaceful diplomacy, a diplomacy that enables us, by means of dialogue and communication, to resolve the various threats to and problems of the Venezuelan people.
Venezuela is shortly to hold parliamentary elections — the twentieth in 15 years of revolution. In the previous elections, the revolutionary, independent and Bolivarian forces, inspired by our Commander Chávez, won 18 of the victories. We are heading into the parliamentary elections. Everything is prepared once again. Former United States President Jimmy Carter once said that the Venezuelan electoral system was the most transparent and comprehensive electoral system he had ever seen. It will enable our people to express their will in the elections on 6 December.
I urge the world to be very attentive to any attempt to interfere with the political process in Venezuela. Venezuela is willing to continue its course along the active and participatory democratic path. It is the path prescribed by our Constitution and adopted by our people in 1999. It is a path of peace. The Bolivarian people have an eminently democratic, popular and peaceful nature. Therefore, this year we will
15-29437 9/26

A/70/PV.17 29/09/2015
undoubtedly continue to demonstrate and strengthen the independence and dignity that characterize the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
Two hundred years after the prophetic letter in Kingston was written, we wish here to say aloud, forcefully and with dignity, that we endorse the appeal for a different United Nations and a radical reform of the system created 70 years ago. We venture to say, as Bolívar did, that the world needs a new, balanced and respectful geopolitics that strengthens the new regionalism. Most of all, the world needs to listen to the people. We very much hope that, in 15 years’ time, in 2030, when the next cycle of the 2030 Agenda will be drawing to an end — the Agenda to promote equality and life and to eliminate poverty — we will be able to celebrate a new policy of peace, the rebuilding of the towns that have been destroyed by the unfair imperialist wars, and a new regulatory system with which the United Nations can quell attempts to impose hegemony by those who think they have the right to rule other peoples. I very much hope that in 2030 we will be able to build and rebuild this marvellous institution that was born 70 years ago with a dream of peace, which is our dream today. Long live peace!


===== Session 71 - 2016 =====
On behalf of Mr. Nicolás Maduro Moros, President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, I would like to congratulate the President on his election to lead the work of the General Assembly at its seventy-first session. We would like to express our firm resolve to contribute to the success of his leadership and thereby to strengthening the Assembly’s authority as the most representative and democratic organ of the United Nations.
We are in the sacred home of the multilateral system, representing a banner for fundamental principles in the international relations between sovereign and equal States. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela endorses the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations, which uphold respect for the right of States to self-determination, sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity as the fundamental basis for ensuring peaceful coexistence among nations in the context of a multinational system. As a non-permanent member of the Security Council since January 2015, Venezuela has worked to reaffirm the primacy of sovereignty, political independence, self-determination and the peaceful resolution of disputes.
A year ago, here in the General Assembly Hall, our Heads of State and Government adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, with the ultimate goal of eradicating hunger and poverty, and noting that the Agenda must be people-centred, universal and transformative. However, I would like to focus our attention on the chief obstacle preventing the world from achieving those noble goals. The capitalist model is a huge impediment to our peoples’ right to development. It creates profound inequalities and is a threat to the very existence of the planet and the human species. In the past 50 years, the consumption generated by capitalism has succeeded in melting the polar ice caps and creating unsustainable climate conditions on our planet. In the words of Pope Francis in his encyclical Laudato si’, man’s actions and his models of production and consumption have turned the planet into a huge garbage heap. That model is sustained and developed through the expansion of violence in its various manifestations, both in internal conflicts and widespread warfare.
In 2015 global military spending reached $1.7 trillion, one third of which — $600 billion, for some countries an almost unimaginably huge figure — was spent by the United States alone to finance its wars and acts of imperial aggression. The United States has about 800 military bases around the world, whose maintenance costs about $100 billion a year. It was not without reason that in 1968 Martin Luther King said that the United States is the largest exporter of violence in the world.
The death totals in conflicts over the past five centuries reveal the intrinsic link between violence and the expansion of capitalism. The sixteenth century saw 1.6 million people die as a result of conflict. The figure for the seventeenth century was 6.1 million; for the eighteenth, 7 million; for the nineteenth, 19.4 million, and for the twentieth, 109.7 million. That tragic story of deadly violence has gone hand in hand with the expansion of capitalism and its financial effects. The ratio of the victims of deadly violence as a percentage of the total population therefore increased over those five centuries from 0.32 to 4.35, making for an increasingly violent world. The forms that wars take today have also changed. Internal conflicts now predominate, and they happen more often in poor countries. To give just one example, a 2005 United Nations report cites a tragic figure illustrating the relationship between violence and capitalism — of the 3 million people killed by conflicts since 1990, 2 million were children.
Capitalism is a serious threat to the future of humankind. Terrorism, that heinous expression of deadly violence, has also changed, becoming more violent and more widespread, attacking countries that are poor or have been ruined, and focusing on geopolitical ends in order to bring about the collapse of States and their institutions and to enable terrorists to expropriate their strategic resources illegally. Venezuela rejects terrorism in all its forms and condemns the double standard whereby the centres of hegemonic power establish an artificial dividing line for terrorism, which is good if it agrees with their desire to overthrow Governments that are not aligned with their interests, and bad when unwanted boomerang effects victimize their own populations.
As we have seen, capitalism is deadly for peace. In the past five centuries of the capitalist model’s expansion, lethal violence has claimed ever more victims and significantly worsened inequalities. Its greatest contradiction is demonstrated by the fact that today the world produces enough to sustain every person on the planet; but that wealth ends up in just a few hands, and poverty is now concentrated mainly in the countries of the South and within those of the centre. The gap between rich and poor has therefore grown disproportionately. The case of the United States is compelling; between 1942 and 2010 the gap there tripled. To give an example, in 1978, the annual earnings of an average member of the working class and a top executive were $48,000 and $393,000, respectively. in 2010, that average worker made $33,000, while a senior executive was paid more than $1.1 million.
According to Oxfam, 1 per cent of the world’s inhabitants owns the same amount of wealth as 90 per cent of the rest. But the most significant part is that this figure is not uniform around the world. It is worse in developing countries and in some sectors even worse that that, where the chasm between those who are squandering the world’s wealth and those who are dying of hunger is tragic. Concentrated capital has been turned into unproductive and speculative wealth that has a pernicious effect on economic sectors such as communications, energy, banking and investment, among others. It has become a way of increasing wealth without producing anything. It is a model based on violence, where peace has become a distant dream for humankind. To see that, we have only to consider the conflicts that are currently the worst threats to global peace and stability.
The question of Palestine is an ongoing issue for the whole of humankind. The daily lives of the Palestinian people, as they try to resist dreadful violence, are marked by war crimes and massive human rights violations. To give just one example, in 2000 the illegal occupation resulted in enormous setbacks to human development, with a poverty rate that went from 20 to 55 per cent in only three years. That figure has now worsened. We do not have the time needed to detail the numbers and types of violations of human rights that are being committed hourly against the Palestinian people.
Venezuela supports Palestine’s right of self- determination as a free, sovereign and independent State, and we therefore believe that the Organization must take the decision as soon as possible to admit it to the United Nations as a full-fledged State. We support the establishment of a State of Palestine within secure, internationally recognized pre-1967 borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital. We call on Israel to end its protracted occupation of territories belonging to the State of Palestine. The Israeli occupation of those territories and its related policies are the leading cause of violations of Palestinians’ human rights and of international humanitarian law. Venezuela also calls for the definitive lifting of the illegal blockade that has been imposed on the Gaza Strip since 2007 and is a flagrant violation of the people’s human rights. There will be no peace in the Middle East if Israel continues to deny the Palestinian people their human rights, including their right to self-determination.
With respect to Iraq, the rationale for the second invasion of the country, in 2003, had as its starting point a truth that, not only was not verified at the time but, years later, was acknowledged by the main invaders to be a lie. That military invasion was preceded by an effective propaganda campaign focused on four main areas. None of the arguments was true. The weapons of mass destruction that led to the invasion of Iraq never existed. What is traditionally referred to as intelligence became war propaganda. The large media corporations, acting like veritable monopolies for moulding public opinion, developed genuine campaigns that preceded and justified the imperialist interventions.
With respect to Libya, in 2011, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization carried out a military intervention, plunging the nation into violence, making it a victim of terrorist groups, reducing its human development index and disrupting its cooperation mechanisms with other neighbouring countries of Mother Africa. In the past, Libya maintained oil-production levels close to 1.6 million barrels per day. In August 2016, production hardly reached 260,000 barrels per day. Yet again, the imperialist obstinacy of the Western Powers curtails the right to development of peoples, the right to peace and the right to a homeland. Migration flows of Libyan citizens seeking a better future beyond its borders have also affected poverty levels in developed countries. The serious humanitarian situations in Afghanistan and Yemen also deserve equal mention.
On another note, the Syrian Arab Republic is waging a full-fledged war against the barbarism of the terrorism plaguing the country. The Syrian people are the primary victims of the violence perpetrated by terrorist groups, which are committing war crimes through the use of chemical weapons. Terrorism in Syria has caused one of the largest humanitarian tragedies in recent decades, which has resulted in 6 million internally displaced persons and 4.8 million refugees fleeing widespread violence to save their lives, regardless of the risks they face. The dramatic images of men, women and children trying to cross the Mediterranean reflect the gravity of the armed conflict in this Arab country caused by terrorist groups and violent opposition. Overcoming the humanitarian tragedy of 13.5 million Syrian citizens depends on terrorism being vanquished and a political and peaceful solution to the armed conflict that respects the sovereignty and territorial integrity of that brother country.
By contrast, Venezuela welcomes the renewal of diplomatic relations between the United States and our sister Republic of Cuba as the only way to overcome and resolve the differences between the States. For decades, the Cuban people have resisted, with dignity and heroism, the ravages of State terrorism from the North whose aim it was to attack its development, political, social and cultural models. The Cuban people continue to be subjected to a criminal economic, commercial and financial blockade. Venezuela demands that the United States put an end to the blockade and offer compensation for the damage caused by such illegal and arrogant actions.
The United Nations system is facing major challenges. Sixteen years ago, at the Millennium Summit, President Hugo Chávez Frías said that the United Nations could not find its way with a map that was drawn in the historic moment following the end of the Second World War in 1945 (see A/55/PV.8). In order to successfully address the complex challenges in the areas of peace, stability and humankind’s economic and social development, it is vital for the Organization to be renewed and strengthened, and that will be achieved by reforming its principal bodies. In that regard, we call for a comprehensive reform of the Security Council. In addition to other reforms to be undertaken within the Council itself, the Council should include developing countries in Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean and Asia. As the General Assembly is the democratic and universal body par excellence of the Organization, our country reaffirms its position in favour of strengthening the authority of the Assembly in the various areas conferred to it by the Charter of the United Nations, namely, peace and security, economic and social development, human rights and international cooperation.
By contrast, approaches relying on double standards and the political use of human rights to justify interventionism in our countries in order to serve imperialist interests seriously undermine the Organization’s institutions, making it a real challenge to safeguard and protect the human rights of peoples and not just individual rights and those of the global elites. It is urgent for the United Nations system to take measures against global Powers that, regardless of the rules and international law, mount attacks on Governments that express the will of their people.
The soon-to-be-elected new Secretary-General will face major challenges and so too will free and sovereign countries whose main responsibility is to work together towards a noble and imperious end. Venezuela thanks Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his efforts to promote international peace and security. It must be acknowledged that the United Nations has made great contributions to humankind. Its intrinsic purposes of peace and security are founded on a strong multilateral system that sets the international rule of law by regulating relations among States. We join in the efforts to preserve the rule of law and advance towards a better system.
Just days ago, in Margarita, we hosted the seventeenth Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Non-Aligned Movement. Venezuela chaired that important group of countries, with which we share the same concerns. We made significant progress and we remain committed to peace, development, solidarity and the welfare of our people, within the framework of the Bandung Principles on which our group was founded. In 1946, Albert Einstein asserted, “I firmly believe that the majority of peoples in the world would prefer to live in peace and security”. Humankind’s desire for peace can be possible only by creating a global Government, to which the peoples of the South, who account for two thirds of the Members of the Organization, are firmly committed.
It should be noted that during the course of today’s meeting, a United States plane violated Venezuelan airspace. This same day, United States aircraft attacked the Syrian national army, killing dozens of Syrians and wounding hundreds more. In that same time period, India was the victim of a terrorist attack, and the Palestinian people suffered violent attacks that left some of its citizens dead. As the Assembly can see, the peoples of the South, who possess the largest energy, mining, gas and water reserves on the planet, are the main victims of imperialist violence and aggression.
Over a year ago, the President of the United States, Mr. Barack Hussein Obama, issued an executive order describing Venezuela as a threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. That executive order was rejected by most countries around the world. In addition, extreme and violent groups are supported and encouraged by the United States to sow the seeds of death in Venezuela by overthrowing the constitutional Government of President Nicolás Maduro Moros and employing multifaceted economic aggression and sophisticated methods to discredit and weaken the country and incite a media, trade and financial boycott. It is nothing that has not already been experienced in the past in our region, when our President Salvador Allende suffered the same attacks from the imperialist United States.
We warn the international community that Venezuela has been chosen as a new imperialist target in order to undermine its sovereignty and bring about its territorial disintegration, with a view to illegitimately and violently seizing the immense, strategic natural resources we possess. Imperialist history, replete with violence, is expected to be repeated — a major campaign of lies and fallacies is under way against Venezuela, its people and its Government. That agenda of aggression makes it an unconventional war aimed at criminalizing and penalizing our development model founded on the basis of twenty-first-century socialism that is profoundly inclusive, distributes wealth to the majority and is based on equality.
Our continent has had very rocky relationships with the United States, which in service of its expansionism and imperial domination, subjugated and invaded many of our countries. Those dark pages of colonialism and subjugation have been overcome by the decision of our peoples to be free and independent. Nevertheless, new war drums are rumbling in the North, which aspires to revisiting and traversing the rocky roads our America has already travelled. We condemn the parliamentary judicial coup d’état in Brazil, and we reject the implementation of a new Operation Condor in our region, controlled from Washington. I would note that Venezuela is criticized for having one of the most equitable wealth distributions in Latin America, with a Gini coefficient of 0.38.
In 2005, UNESCO declared our country free of illiteracy. Today, our school enrolment, according to UNESCO, stands at 77 per cent for children ages 3 to 6, 96 per cent for ages 6 to 12, and 76 per cent for ages 12 to 18. We have 2.6 million students in higher education, placing us among the leading countries in the world in this regard. In 2012, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) singled out Venezuela for its social policies to reduce hunger and poverty by over 50 per cent throughout its national territory. In 2015, the FAO once again praised the Government of President Nicolás Maduro Moros for the exceptional progress made in reducing hunger and poverty.
In our country, our free health-care plan is available to 75 per cent of the population, and will soon reach 100 per cent, thanks to a joint programme with our Cuban brothers. Our social-housing programme has benefitted 1,111,095 families. We have placed particular emphasis on protecting retired persons and the elderly. In 17 years, over 3 million persons in that age group have benefited from this programme.
We offer hope to the vast majority of people who are victims of a ruthless model of humanity. From Venezuela, we seek true peace among all peoples and the establishment of a new economic, cultural and communication model in service of peace, development and equality. We are developing partnerships through innovative mechanisms such as the Bolivarian Alternative for the Peoples of Our America and the PetroCaribe Energy Cooperation Agreement, which benefit the peoples of our region.
We also support the efforts of Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa towards the establishment of a multipolar, multicentric world. From Venezuela, we wage permanent war on the capitalist system that perpetuates poverty, violence and unhappiness. We echo the words of our liberator, Simón Bolívar, when we say that the most perfect system of Government is one which produces the greatest sum happiness, social security and political stability.
Let us give the world the greatest possible sum happiness, social security and political stability. The time for peace with social justice is upon us. Let us change the system and become true militants for peace.


===== Session 72 - 2017 =====
We address the General Assembly at its seventy-second session in the name of the constitutional President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, Nicolas Maduro Moros, and thus in the name of a sovereign, peace-loving people that believes in respect among nations and compliance with the purest and truest principles of international law — the Bolivarian people of Venezuela.
In the nineteenth century, the liberating army of Simon Bolivar left its country not to conquer or dominate, but rather to help brotherly peoples achieve their independence, so that later they could return home with the satisfaction of having been useful in the cause of liberty and equality. That is the spirit that characterizes our people and the actions of our revolutionary Government during such difficult times for humankind. That is why we will always uphold the Bolivarian diplomacy of peace.
Indeed, we are in the house of peace, the home of peaceful solutions and the land of international law and its principles. We are embraced and upheld by the Charter of the United Nations, a noble multilateral instrument to avoid war and injustices. Thus this rostrum should be respected, protected and cared for by nations. It is an all but sacred podium for the peoples that espouse peace and understanding.
However, this House, one of multilaterialism and respect for the equality of peoples and States, has been defiled, disrespected and offended, time and time again, by arrogant Powers that seek to impose their unilateral rules of the game — rules of war, suffering and pain. That was denounced in this very place, in a resounding voice and an incomparable manner, by Commander Hugo Chavez in 2006 (see A/61/PV.12). Everyone will recall his remark, that it smelled of sulphur in here. It continues to smell of sulphur. He tried to sound the alarm to generate the necessary restraint to confront the serious unilateral threats then threatening world peace.
Nevertheless, a week ago this Hall (see A/72/ PV.3) — and the world, by way of the media — bore witness to yet another dangerous desecration of the principles and objectives of the United Nations. The emperor of the world, the President of the United States, Donald Trump, used this platform built for peace to announce wars, the total destruction of Member States and the implementation of unilateral and illegal coercive measures. He threatened and judged at will, as if he had absolute dictatorial powers over the sovereign States Members of our Organization. Paradoxically, in a display of brazenness and political hypocracy, Donald Trump based his attacks against humankind on such values as peace and prosperity.
In our case, we recall that former President Barack Obama, who had a different style but the same goal, declared the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security of the United States. That was in an executive order on 9 May 2015. Today, we are obliged to declare before the world that our country was directly threatened by the President of the United States with the use of the most powerful military force that has ever existed in the history of humankind. That was on 11 August this year.
As a complement to such anachronism and an offence to our sovereignty and to the peace that has always characterized our Latin America and the Caribbean, the Trump Administration imposed illegal economic sanctions on our economy on 25 August, with a view to making our people suffer and forcing undemocratic changes to our system of government. In his statement last week Donald Trump appealed to the antiquated ideological rhetoric of the Cold War, to the best inquisitorial style of Richard Nixon and Senator Joseph McCarthy, to reiterate his threats against our country and our sister Republic of Cuba. Venezuela will always seek mutually respectful dialogue with the United States Government. However, as the free people that we are, we stand ready to defend our sovereignty, our independence and our democracy in any scenario and by any way.
Given such attitudes, the United Nations should establish effective mechanisms to neutralize warlike pretences and intentions to supplant multilaterialism, which has cost us so much to consolidate, with the dictatorial unilateralism of those who intend, through the use of arms and economic blackmail, to impose destruction and a single way of thinking on our diverse and heterogeneous humankind. In that connection, last Tuesday the 120 members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries — two thirds of the General Assembly — unanimously adopted the Political Declaration of New York as a tool for denunciation, condemnation and joint action against coercive and unilateral measures that certain international actors impose in frank violation of the Charter of the United Nations.
In our statement on behalf of the presidency of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries at the plenary session of the Group of 77 and China last Thursday, we proposed that the New York Political Declaration be extended to that group of countries, which focuses on economic affairs, because the merciless and unilateral attacks against the economies of our peoples form an essential part of those illegal, unilateral and coercive measures. We must urgently seek multilateral responses to avoid the imposition of coercive measures whereby Governments that have imposed them illegally have a legal obligation to compensate the peoples who have suffered from their effects. In that regard, we condemn all unilateral actions against brotherly nations, such as Russia and Iran, in particular the extension of the criminal blockade against the brotherly Republic of Cuba, which has been in effect for more than five decades and, at this time, clearly reflects the new winds of United States unilateralism.
Venezuela firmly opposes the existence of nuclear weapons on our planet. Their possession exposes humankind to unimaginable and unjustifiable anguish and risks. We therefore signed the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons last Wednesday. We must make a supreme effort so that nuclear crises are de-escalated and vanish — hopefully along with their weapons — through dialogue and humanist reason.
Inthe areaofhumanrights as well, Venezuela—which over the past several years has worked tirelessly to ensure the broadest form of social investment, redistributing with justice its national wealth among Venezuelan men and women so as to ensure their human and social rights — has been targeted and accused by the United States Government. If there is any country that is not worthy of membership in the Human Rights Council, it is precisely the United States of America. It is the main violator of human rights, not only on its own territory, but throughout the world, including through unjustified wars, the bombing of civilian populations, clandestine imprisonment accompanied by various forms of torture, the imposition of unilateral and unlawful measures against economies in several countries, various kinds of economic pressure, and rash migration policies. It is the only country that has dared to use nuclear weapons against another people. It is a country that, violating the fundamental institutional framework of the United Nations, led the invasion of Iraq in 2003 on the grounds that it was searching for weapons of mass destruction that they never found, notwithstanding the more than 1 million deaths caused by that bloody military operation.
The United States is building a wall on its border with Mexico, and there is proposed legislation to impose a 7 per cent tax on immigrants’ income to fund not their social security but the construction of that shameful wall.
Based on verifiable data from United Nations agencies and rapporteurs, we can note the following. The United States has not ratified 62 per cent of the principal treaties concerning human rights. In the United States, there is no independent institution for the defence and promotion of human rights. The United Nations Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions has condemned the lack of independence of the United States judiciary. Solitary confinement is widespread practice in this country. The number of homeless people has reached 3.5 million, including 1.5 million boys and girls. Some 28 per cent of those living in poverty have no health-care coverage. The maternal mortality rate has skyrocketed in recent years. Some 10,000 children are incarcerated in adult prisons, and children can be sentenced to life imprisonment. Of those who have been condemned to life, 70 per cent are African-American. The Special Rapporteur on the right to education has condemned the use of electric shocks and physical coercion in study centres.
The United States is one of the seven countries in the world that has not ratified the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. In the United States, paid maternity leave is not mandatory. Allegations of police abuses, inparticular against the African-American community, are commonplace. More than 10 million African Americans continue to live in poverty, half of them live in situations of severe poverty. In a country in which slavery was supposed to have been abolished, the thirteenth amendment allows for slavery in the form of criminal conviction. One in three American indigenous women will undergo rape in her lifetime. We are discussing a country in which racial discrimination is not only unsurpassed, but one in which it is growing alongside the supremacist positions of the current Administration. Please excuse all the details, but there are things that we must know that the media hides.
Venezuela condemns terrorism in all its forms, whether perpetrated by the violent anarchist groups that today threaten world peace and stability or by States that assume the right to intervene throughout the world, gaining control of strategic natural resources through the use of military force with no compassion for civilians. It pains us to see how the Mediterranean Sea has become an immense cemetery, often before the blind eye and incompetence of States bearing partial responsibility for the crises generated in the migrants’ countries of origin, owing to a combination of both forms of terrorism.
Incited and bloody wars like the prefabricated ones against Syria and Libya only leave behind desolation and division. Fortunately, with the support of their righteous international allies, the heroic Syrian Government and people are coming closer to a definitive victory against terrorist groups every day. Venezuela hopes for the success of the work of the Under-Secretary-General of the United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism in his role as head coordinator of the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. Venezuela hopes that that work will also condemn State terrorism.
Venezuela encourages the resumption of peace negotiations between Palestine and Israel, which must lead to a lasting and durable peace between the two States and recognizing as the borders of Palestine those that existed in 1967, in conformity with international law, as well as establishing East Jerusalem as its capital. We believe that the United Nations must assume a much greater proactive role in resolving that historic and unjust conflict.
We thank Secretary-General Antonio Guterres for his sincere efforts in facilitating the implementation of the Geneva Agreement through the good-offices mechanism so as reach a practical solution, satisfactory to the parties, in the case of the ongoing territorial dispute between ourselves and our brothers and neighbours in the cooperative Republic of Guyana.
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela will always be willing to help open the path of peace. We therefore commend the implementation of the peace agreements between the Government of Colombia and the Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia, to which both Commander Chavez and President Nicolas Maduro Moros devoted so much energy and effort. Likewise, we will continue to facilitate the talks between the Government of Colombia and the Ejercito de Liberacion Nacional that are under way in the Republic of Ecuador.
Venezuela is not a drug-producing country, as international agencies have certified. We cooperate in a sovereign capacity with all neighbouring and non-neighbouring countries in countering drug trafficking. We express our concern about the increase in drug production in the neighbouring country of Colombia. However, we have always affirmed that consumer countries bear the primary responsibility, as they account for the incentives underlying both drug production and drug trafficking, and they must assume genuine control of the entry and distribution of drugs within their territories.
Since we have been working for many years with the United Nations Development Programme, Venezuela’s path towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals is simple, because our Plan de la Patria en Marcha and the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development not only coincide, but they are also complementary instruments.
In terms of their financing, everyone knows that over the past 18 years, 76 per cent of Venezuela’s revenue has been dedicated to social investment, and that will continue to increase. No economic attack or illegal sanction will prevent President Maduro from continuing and developing policies that ensure the social rights of our fellow citizens. Yes, we are concerned about the obvious lack of sources of funding for both our brotherly countries and for those that last year expressed their willingness to comply with the 2030 Agenda although they lack the funds required to do so. The United Nations must commit to guaranteeing that worthy funding for the comprehensive and sustainable development of all Member States.
It may be no coincidence that days before and during this seventy-second session of the General Assembly, the effects of the frequently warned of and feared climate change have manifested themselves through the devastation and death caused by consecutive hurricanes of magnitudes never previously seen. Those occurred not too far from New York. The unprecedented wrath of those natural phenomena has affected our brothers and sisters in several Caribbean countries.
The Prime Ministers of Antigua and Barbuda, Gaston Browne, and of Dominica, Roosevelt Skerrit, made two extraordinary statements to the General Assembly in which they bravely and emotionally expressed the most absolute truths and alerted us to the need for concrete, joint and urgent action to avoid greater havoc being wreaked by those phenomena, which are undeniably caused by climate change. Roosevelt Skerrit said that those small countries are becoming the victims of a war that they did not choose, did not start and are not part of. It is the war of developed countries and the capitalist system against our Mother Nature. Today, with greater emphasis than ever before, we recall the motto of environmental and conservationist social movements: let us not change the climate; let us change the system.
Restoring physical infrastructure and using construction techniques that are resistant to the hardships of new natural phenomena cannot fall to the affected countries and people. It is also a shared and differentiated responsibility that must be borne principally by the countries that pollute the most and thereby contribute to climate change. In that context, and in the light of the consequences that we have witnessed, we find it extraordinary and hostile that the Government of the United States, the most polluting country, intends to withdraw from the Paris Agreement on Climate Change, which, while not a panacea, is a collective step forward to mitigating the effects of climate change. How many hurricanes, typhoons, landslides, droughts and cases of subsidence; how many deaths, injured people and devastated countries are needed to ascertain that climate change, as stated by the experts of our very own United Nations, is a threat to the entire planet and that it is everyone’s responsibility to reverse it?
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela offers its condolences to the Governments and families affected by the successive hurricanes in the Caribbean and the United States, as well as the victims of the terrible earthquakes in our sister nation, Mexico. While we have sought to deal immediately and in solidarity with the emergencies in our region, President Nicolas Maduro will continue to provide the necessary support, not only that which is at our disposal, but everything we can help coordinate and direct in order to assist our friends and brothers in Latin America and the Caribbean.
As I said at the beginning of this statement, the Venezuelan people are subject to constant aggression by hegemonic Powers who seek to seize our natural resources — no more and no less than the world’s largest oil reserve and one of the most important gas reserves, as well as our gold, diamond, coltan, iron, aluminium and thorium reserves and our biological diversity, water resources and fertile lands, among others. We have suffered multifaceted attacks against our economy, our currency and our production capacity. The attacks have included the induced generation of internal political violence by political factions that have tried to accede to power by undemocratic means since 2002.
This year, we suffered four months of political violence, once again aimed at overthrowing President Maduro. After the tension and pain of the unjustifiable deaths, the opposition violence was neutralized and appeased by the great democratic and popular demonstration on 30 July, in which more than 8 million Venezuelans came out to vote for peace and to elect a civil, sovereign and plenipotentiary National Constituent Assembly.
Those latest acts of violence by the Venezuelan extreme right took place on the very same 30 July in an effort to prevent people from going out to vote. Total political peace returned to the country from 31 July. We are witnesses to constituent peace. Our National Constituent Assembly, in coexistence with and respect for the rest of the constituted powers, has become not only a peacemaker and protector of the people, but also a quintessential instrument for national dialogue on and legitimate attention to the country’s most urgent problems.
We have an active and popular democracy. We in Venezuela have organized 22 elections in 18 years. The revolution has triumphed in 20 of those elections. We have always developed social dialogue as a method of deepening our democracy. That is why we also welcome the fact that the Venezuelan political opposition has decided to redirect itself along the democratic pathway and in line with the Constitution, through the participation of all its parties in the gubernatorial elections on 15 October.
We celebrate the fact that President Danilo Medina of the Dominican Republic, former President Rodriguez Zapatero of Spain, and former President Leonel Fernandez of the Dominican Republic have adopted and defined the dialogue initiative that President Maduro announced just after the establishment of the National Constituent Assembly, and have summoned the parties to a process to which Nicaragua, Bolivia, Mexico and Chile have joined. We are grateful for the sincere support of those friendly countries and Governments, in order to promote the only possible solution — a peaceful, constitutional and sovereign solution that is built by all Venezuelans.
In these times of turmoil in the world, we want to see a United Nations that is truly united. Any reform process must take place with the participation and inclusion of all its Members. We need a United Nations that is truly effective in neutralizing violent and unilateral initiatives, as we stated moments ago, and that is able to work together with all Member States, without hegemonic bias. We need a United Nations system that identifies and warns of the true causes of the greatest problems humankind suffers today, and attends to them with no distractions or pressures that may be costly, while always respecting the principles of our founding Charter of the United Nations.
It is time for definitions. The historical struggle between healthy multilateralism and perverse unilateralism is at its peak. Let us make decisions that always bear in mind those who are most humble, the excluded, those who need us most, our Mother Nature. Let us be able to look into the eyes of our children and our grandchildren with the satisfaction of having halted the worst and guaranteed them a better future of peace, health and happiness. Let us build, through the United Nations, that which the Liberator asked of us in 1815 — a Government system that grants us the greatest possible amount of happiness, social security and political stability.
From this house of multilateralism, we say, may multilateralism live. From this place of international law, may international law live; from this home of peace, may world peace live. From the heart of Venezuela, rely on the Bolivarian Government of President Nicolas Maduro to close ranks on justice, humanism and peace. As the Liberator wrote on 13 April 1823 to the then President of Peru, Jose de la Riva Agiiero, “I am inclined to think that, when it is essential, love for the homeland will triumph”. Likewise, we hold the unwavering and unrelenting certainty that under any circumstances, love of our sovereign, peaceful and Bolivarian Venezuela, love of our working people, love of our good people and love of the homeland, will triumph. Peace will triumph and prevail. We will always triumph.

===== Session 73 - 2018 =====
On behalf of the Government and the delegation of  the Bolivarian Republic of  Venezuela, I  would like  to congratulate Ms. María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés on her assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly at its seventy-third session, the first Latin American woman to assume that position.
We have been convened to work on and address at this session the important and crucial theme “Making the United Nations relevant to all people: global leadership and shared responsibilities for peaceful, equitable and sustainable societies”. Making the United Nations relevant to all is indeed a noble and lofty objective, which the United Nations system must pursue at the dawn of the twenty-first century, a century of great opportunities that we firmly believe will set the tone for the processes of human, political and popular liberation that will have a significant impact on the future of the Organization sooner rather than later.
The United Nations was born in 1945, in the heat of the end of the so-called Second World War. The way it was organized throughout the rest of the twentieth century was a reflection of the post-war conflicts and action of those years in a bipolar and — after the fall of the Soviet Union in the 1990s — a unipolar world. The correlation of forces and the functioning of the world have always directly influenced the United Nations and, in order for it to be relevant, in accordance with the objective of the seventy-third session of the General Assembly, it must express the desires, the way of being, the culture, the political thought, the strength and the hopes of the majority of the peoples of the world.
That is why Venezuela has come here today — to speak its truth. I bring to  the  Assembly  the  truth of a fighting, heroic and revolutionary people.  I  speak on behalf of a homeland that, throughout its history, has refused to surrender to injustice or to the empires that yesterday were made up of slave owners and colonialists and that today are still made up of slave owners — neocolonialist slave owners. I speak on behalf of a historic people who rose up in a heroic resistance to support indigenous and native peoples who for centuries resisted domination by the colonial empires of the past. I speak on behalf of the country that has the honour to be the birthplace of the great liberator Simón Bolívar, the outstanding leader of the generation of liberators of the Americas, who 200 years ago achieved the heroic feat of founding a continent and a region and of realizing a dream — that of independent republics in this region of the world.
Venezuela is a historic place. It is both a birthplace and a school of republican values, a birthplace and school of rebellion, a birthplace and a school for dignity and for the values such as equality on which our homeland has stubbornly insisted  in  its  search for its independence and sovereignty throughout the centuries. That is the voice I bring to this Hall, which has been the backdrop for one of the most infamous and shameful assaults we have seen in recent years.
Our country has been harassed and assaulted. Yesterday, in this very Hall, the President of the United States of America once again attacked the noble people of Venezuela (see A/73/PV.6), invoking the doctrine that established the United States empire 200 years ago and determined its interventionist role, its purported role as judge, plaintiff and policeman of the world — the Monroe Doctrine. In this very Hall, the President of the most powerful imperial nation in the world, the
 
United States of America, articulated the doctrine of James Monroe, who, in his day, said that America was for  the people of  the United States and that the rest of the Americas must belong to the United States, as its backyard, in the interest of the Washington elites that dominated the way in which that nation, a former colony of the British Empire, was organized. In fact, he took the Monroe Doctrine further yesterday. We may ask why President Donald Trump unleashed such a ferocious expression of American power at every level in his speech yesterday.
This is a historic conflict, as we have often told the world. Our people are quite familiar with it.  It  is  a conflict between the imperialist, interventionist, neocolonialist Monroe Doctrine  and the historic republican doctrine of independence, rebellion, dignity, justice, freedom and equality of our liberator, Simón Bolívar. It is an old conflict. It is an old confrontation with an imperialist doctrine seeking to dominate our region. In the nineteenth century, it was our region alone that they wanted to dominate. In the twentieth century, they were already planning to  dominate the  world.  In the twenty-first century, they intend to continue dominating, directing, blackmailing and giving orders to the world as if it were their own property.
In our region this is a 200-year-old conflict and confrontation between  the  republican  libertarian flag — which in the nineteenth century of Simón Bolívar and the liberators advocated a world of balance and respect — and the pro-imperialist, interventionist flags promoting the domination of an  entire  region by an elite that had already taken control of power in Washington. It is an old, historic conflict, with which we are very familiar. Today Venezuela is  the  victim of ongoing aggression on the economic, political and diplomatic fronts — and in the media — by those who govern the United States of America. It uses the Monroe Doctrine to justify from an ideological, political and diplomatic point of view the aggression against our beloved homeland, our very raison d’être.
What is the reason for that political, economic and diplomatic aggression against Venezuela? First of all, it is because Venezuela has carried out an independent project of democratic revolution and social redemption and has built its own new social model, founded on our country’s historical roots, identity and the very culture of our Latin American region. For 20 years, they have tried to stop the course of history, development and a
revolutionary project that was born from the very roots of the struggles of our people and our region.
Secondly — and this is perhaps more understandable — it is for global geopolitical reasons. Venezuela has the largest  internationally  certified  oil reserve in the world. Venezuela, a founder of the Organization   of   Petroleum   Exporting   Countries, a country that has been producing oil for 100 years, discovered and internationally certified the world’s largest oil reserve. Venezuela also possesses significant natural and mining resources. Today, our country is pursuing the certification of what could be the world’s largest gold reserve, based on international standards. The world should know that, in addition to the largest international oil reserve, Venezuela is in the process of having its gold reserve certified as the largest in the world, based on international standards. We are also in the process of certifying what will be the fourth-largest gas reserve in the world. These are significant natural resources in an important geopolitical, economic and strategic location, which has led the oligarchies on our continent and those who dominate from Washington to consider taking over and controlling Venezuela’s political power.
Today Venezuela is also the victim of ongoing economic aggression. In the past two years it has been subjected to a series of unilateral, illegal measures of economic persecution and blockade. We have been prevented from using the dollar, the international currency, on the authority of the United States Secretary of the Treasury. Today Venezuela cannot  negotiate any international transaction using the dollar. Does the world know that Venezuela is being persecuted economically, commercially and monetarily? Today we are subject to a set of illegal, unilateral economic sanction mechanisms. Yesterday, the President of the United States, from this very rostrum, announced new economic and financial so-called sanctions against our country under the cover of law — international law. Does the United Nations system know that unilateral sanctions that use preferential treatment through currency and financial persecution are illegal under international law?
Venezuela is also subject to ongoing aggression  in the media. An attempt has been made to build a   file to justify an international intervention. Today we know that plans have been made for an international military intervention to control our country. A case against our country has been constructed in the global
 
media, alleging the existence of a humanitarian crisis and using United Nations concepts to justify permitting a coalition of countries, headed by the Government of the United States and its satellite Governments in Latin America, to get its hands on our country. A migratory crisis has been manufactured in various ways, a crisis that is collapsing under its own weight and that is intended to divert attention from the real migratory crises that exist in the world and demonstrate the degree to which the countries of the South are disadvantaged. The migratory crisis that exists in Central America,  in Mexico and in Latin America was triggered by the announcement of a separation wall against our peoples, a wall dividing our peoples. No one wants to talk about that. It is evidence of the double standards in the treatment of the real situation of Latin American and Caribbean migrants, who are contained and persecuted on the border with Mexico, where families have been separated and children kidnapped, yet where there is no interest in addressing or raising awareness about the issue.
There  is  no  interest  in  drawing  attention  to  the seriousness of the migratory crisis caused by NATO’s destruction of Libya, which has led to the migration of thousands, in fact millions, of our African brothers — and of the war against Syria, which has resulted in the migration of people from the Middle East. Instead, an attempt has been made to focus on  an  alleged migratory  crisis  in  Venezuela  through  a worldwide media campaign to justify  what  has  been announced for several years — a humanitarian intervention. It is the same kind of plot that was used in the story of Iraq’s weapons of mass destruction. It is the same kind of plot that justified intervening in other countries but it is now being conducted through a major campaign of brutal psychological warfare.
Today Venezuela is also the victim of diplomatic aggression. Yesterday, my brothers and sisters of the Governments of the world witnessed as the President of the United States made direct threats to  cut  off  and withdraw aid. We  witnessed  direct  threats  by the Government of the United States to block aid to international support and assistance systems for the Governments and peoples of the world who need it.  We have heard statements from various Governments demanding better mechanisms for access to financing for development, to which our peoples are entitled. The President of the United States yesterday, from this same rostrum, threatened the Governments of the world
by telling them that they must submit to his designs, obey his orders and cooperate with his policies in the United Nations system  or  suffer  the  consequences. A ferocious diplomatic offensive has been directed against Venezuela in all the organs of the United Nations system, supported by satellite Governments that kneel and sully the honour of the peoples they claim to represent.
Venezuela has been subjected to continued political aggression. On 8 September, The New York Times published evidence of the participation of White House and United States Government officials in meetings  on how to promote a military coup d’état and bring about a change of Government, a regime change, in Venezuela. The New York Times investigation, which was picked up by Time magazine, The Washington Post and throughout the world press, is further confirmation of the conspiracy and the ongoing attacks by the Government of the United States against the strong, constitutional democracy — a people’s democracy — that is the Venezuelan democracy. We had already repelled, at the time, attempts to carry out violence against our Constitution and to cause riots and attempted military coups against the constitutional and revolutionary Government, over which, thanks to the popular will and vote, I preside in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
After the failure of those apparent attempts to bring about riots and military attacks described in the pages of The New York Times, that newspaper detailed how United States officials, supported by the Colombian Government and institutions, met and offered their encouragement and support to that attempt at regime change. Can the United Nations system, can humankind and — I say this to my Latin American and Caribbean brothers — can Latin America and the Caribbean accept such methods, which did so much damage to our region throughout the twentieth century? How many military interventions and coups d’état were there? How many dictatorships were imposed during the long, dark twentieth century in Latin America and the Caribbean? And whom did they favour? The people? Whose interests did they represent? They represented the interests of transnational corporations — interests contrary to those of our peoples. We had to endure long dictatorships, such as that of Augusto Pinochet  in Chile, because of the determination of the United States elites who believed in the Monroe Doctrine to deny the right that we had earned to govern ourselves
 
in the way we need to govern ourselves and to build economic, political and cultural systems that were our region’s own.
That is why I said that I have come to bring the truth of a people engaged in a struggle. Venezuela is at the centre of a political and media campaign that seems to have no end. That is why we bring the truth of our homeland to the General Assembly.
After the failure of those illegal, unconstitutional and criminal attempts to bring about regime change, published in The New York Times; after the democratic presidential election on 20 May, in which this public servant standing before the Assembly today, Nicolás Maduro Moros, obtained 68 per cent of the popular votes in free elections — the presidential election on 20 May was the twenty-fourth election in 19 years, and the Bolivarian revolutionary forces, with varying levels of approval, have won 22 out of 24 elections against  the opposition forces in our country; after the failure of the attempts to carry out military coups d’état; and after the failure of the candidacies and electoral tactics supported by Washington, with the immense electoral triumph that the people gave us, on 4 August, I  was the victim of a terrorist attack by drones that tried to assassinate me in military style on a main street of the capital city of Caracas. If the attack had been executed as planned — and this is public knowledge — there would have been a massacre and all of Venezuela’s institutional, political and military leaders would have been killed.
That same 4 August, the terrorist perpetrators of the drone attack, the first known global drone attack by terrorists, were captured by our State’s  security and police agencies. All 28 perpetrators were captured through various investigations, and all of them have confessed and been convicted. As has been made public and as various Governments around the world have been informed, all the investigations indicate that the terrorist attack of 4 August was prepared, financed and planned from the territory of the United States of America. Through diplomatic channels, I have made the United States Government aware of the names of the organizers, financiers and planners of the serious terrorist attack of 4 August, and we have given proof of their involvement. All the investigations indicate that the attack and its perpetrators, as they have confessed, were trained and prepared for months on Colombian territory under the protection and support of the Colombian authorities. The latest investigations
and arrests have revealed, as I have made public, that some diplomatic officials of the Governments of Chile, Colombia and Mexico have been implicated by the perpetrators in efforts to facilitate their escape after the terrorist attack was carried out.
I want to ask the United Nations system to appoint a special representative of the Secretary-General to conduct an independent international investigation into the implications of the terrorist attack that our country suffered on 4 August and those responsible for it. Venezuela is open — as are the doors of our country and of our justice system — to establishing direct responsibility for that aggression, which is the most serious to have taken place in our country’s political history. Through their involvement, they sought to create chaos in our homeland and to leave the entire State leaderless in order to justify national confrontation and internal violence, thereby rationalizing the implementation of mechanisms outside the multilateral system of the United Nations and military intervention, as other countries have experienced in the past.
Venezuela therefore formally proposes support for an independent international investigation and that the truth about those events be established. Even I have said to the United States Government how good it would  be if the United States Government, which has denied its involvement in preparing and in carrying out those attacks, were to heed my appeal that the Federal Bureau of Investigation, together with high-level professionals and experts, take part in the investigation to clarify and help the Venezuelan justice system to determine the truth, and only the truth.
When I arrived in New York today, in the afternoon, I learned that some journalists had asked President Donald Trump if he was willing to meet Maduro — as they call me — Nicolás Maduro, President of Venezuela. It seems that President Donald Trump said in some of his replies today that if that helped Venezuela, he would be willing to do so. I therefore say and affirm to him from this rostrum that, despite the immense historical, ideological and social differences —  I  am a  worker,  a bus driver, a man of the people, not a tycoon or a billionaire — despite all the differences, which could be considered immeasurable, I, Nicolás Maduro Moros, President of Venezuela, would be willing to shake hands with the President of the United States and sit down and discuss our bilateral differences and the issues of our region that have been so talked about. That is what I think.
 
Venezuela is a nation with a tradition of peace. Venezuela is a friendly country. Venezuelans do not hate the United States. On the contrary, we appreciate the United States, its culture, its arts, its society. But we disagree with the imperialist concepts that have taken hold of political power in Washington since the very founding of the nation.
Simón Bolívar was our liberator who wrote, in 1829, almost prophetically: “The United States seems destined by Providence to plague America with miseries in the name of freedom.” He had prophetic vision. It must have been hard to see so early what would come to pass in the twentieth century. Do President Donald Trump and I have any differences?  Indeed  we  do. But it is those with differences who should enter into dialogue. It is those with differences who must bring their goodwill and their ability to communicate to the table. President Trump has said that he is worried about Venezuela, that he wants to help Venezuela. Well, I am prepared to discuss, with an open agenda, any topic with the American Government with humility, honesty and sincerity.
As President of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, Venezuela flies the  flag of  the  dialogue of civilizations. As President of the Non-Aligned Movement, Venezuela will always promote and participate in international political dialogue and understanding as a way to resolve international conflicts. We advocate political and peaceful means rather than force. Venezuela has invaluable experience in organizations such as the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) in dealing with differences and building consensus and agreement.
Recently in Algeria, we held a meeting on the Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee of OPEC. It was an extraordinary meeting, attended by the representatives of the Monitoring Committee, of which our country is one, as well as the representatives of 24 States with the largest oil reserves and the biggest producers of oil. Keeping in mind the cultural, political, geostrategic and geopolitical differences, we reached a consensus — one voice — in order to continue stabilizing the oil market at fair, reasonable and stable prices.
We believe in political dialogue as the way to channel solutions, as the way to resolve conflicts. There have been attempts to demonize the Bolivarian revolution of Venezuela with a brutal campaign never seen before, first against Commander Hugo Chávez
Frías, founder of our revolution and, in the heart of Venezuelans, eternal Commander, and then against this humble man standing here carrying the voice of a people, who supports his revolution and democratically backs his actions. That is why I reaffirm our will to participate in international dialogue and national political dialogue.
I know that there  are  Governments  represented in this Hall that are interested in peace, sovereignty, independence and justice in Venezuela. I open our arms to all those who wish to help us from Africa, Europe, Asia and Latin America, while respecting the sovereignty of the country, without intervening in the internal affairs of Venezuela, so that they can support and assist us in a process of  sovereign  dialogue for the peace, democracy, justice, prosperity and future  of Venezuela — a noble nation that deserves peace, a future and more.
We bring good tidings from a country that  has  not surrendered and will not surrender.  We  bring good tidings from a nation that is consolidating its democracy. We bring good tidings from a nation that is empowering its people. We bring good tidings from a country that is building its own social model and its own social welfare State with new ways of protecting its elderly, its retirees, its children, its youth, its women, its most vulnerable sectors and its workers. We bring good tidings about our efforts towards economic recovery. In mid-August, we launched an economic programme to bring about growth and prosperity, which is laying the foundation for a new economy that does not depend on oil revenue, but is, instead, diversified and can grow sustainably and build prosperity. We are on our way to a new type of social model.
We believe in a different world. Our generation saw the coming and going of the bipolar world of two blocs and the Cold War — which some, it seems, wish to bring back with attacks against China, Russia and humble countries like Venezuela. Engaging in combat against countries like Russia and China goes against what should be a humanistic international policy that recognizes the emergence of new centres of power and the need to build a multipolar world.
Venezuela advocates and is committed to building a multipolar, multicentric world where the various regions — Africa, Latin America, the Caribbean, Asia, Europe, North America — can coexist in balance and in peace, while respecting each other’s cultures, religions,
 
idiosyncrasies, identities and various political and economic models. There is no single economic model. We cannot allow others to impose one particular economic model and way of thinking on us. We cannot allow others to impose a particular cultural or political model on us. Humankind must not all espouse the same uniform way of thought.
We demand the cultural, religious and political diversity of humankind in this world.  That  is  why we advocate the emergence of such a world from the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, the emergence of a world of justice. We assume and reaffirm our solidarity with the Arab people of Palestine. There must be justice in Palestine and respect for its historical territories, as established in 1967 by the United Nations. We raise the flag of the Palestinian people.
We support the call of the United Nations for an end to the infamous and criminal 50-year blockade against the people of Cuba. We have had enough of continuing to apply obsolete methods of another era against Cuba. Those same methods are now being applied against other people, such as the Venezuelan people. We will therefore happily vote in the coming days in favour of the upcoming draft resolution to reject the blockade and economic and financial persecution against Cuba and demand that it be lifted immediately.
We have a world to build. We have a world to forge. Two hundred years ago, our region was plagued with colonies, slavery and injustice. One hundred years ago, as a people we strived for freedom. Today, in the twenty-first century, the time for freedom has come — the opportunity has undoubtedly arisen, from the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, from the revolutionary ideas of Simón Bolívar and the example and legacy of Commander Hugo Chávez, whose voice still echo in this Hall, clamouring for justice in the world, demanding an end to those imperialist practices of threats, coercion and extortion against our peoples.
Today, we can say that we have lived through 20 years of revolution. The past three years have been the most difficult with harassment, aggression and attacks. We have endured political, media, diplomatic, economic and financial attacks and persecution, and I can say today, on 26 September, that Venezuela is stronger than ever. We have managed to resist and have found strength in our own historical core to still be standing today, victorious and ready to continue building our own social model — that of the socialist revolution
of the twenty-first century. We proclaim it to the four winds. It is a new revolution of independence, dignity and justice. Today we are stronger than ever.
Two days ago we witnessed the tribute to Nelson Mandela (see A/73/PV.5). To speak of Mandela is to speak of rebellion. Mandela has been portrayed as a fool, as someone who did not fight. Mandela is rebellion in the face of injustice. He is courage and bravery. He is a challenge to the oppressors. We consider ourselves to be following the legacy of Nelson Mandela and of the great African leaders who have raised the banner of equality and justice in the face of slavery, racism and colonialism in all of its forms.
We heard the tribute to Nelson Mandela and reflected on how much the world  has changed. Only 30 years ago, Mandela was considered a terrorist by the United States Congress of the North American Government. Just a few years ago, Mandela was still on the terror watch list. Does that not sound familiar? Nelson Mandela was a terrorist, he was sanctioned and persecuted, abandoned. How the world has changed. Today, Nelson Mandela is a flag that we embrace with love and conviction. He is a symbol of what is possible if rebellion, struggle and justice can win the noble hearts and minds of people.
I have confidence in the future of humankind. I have confidence in the destiny of my country. I have confidence in the common future of this community, the United Nations. After having survived coup d’état attempts and terrorist attacks, I can still say that I  have  confidence in human beings and in the future  of humankind. From Venezuela, we say to the United Nations that we have  confidence in the noble  ideals of a people that, like the people of Venezuela, has not surrendered and will not surrender. The Assembly can count on Venezuela for the great causes of the future of the United Nations and the future of a multipolar world.


===== Session 74 - 2019 =====
I greet with great respect everyone meeting in this Hall, which is sacred for public international law. I come on behalf of the one Venezuela, which is worthy, brave and does not kneel before any imperial Power. I convey the greetings of President Nicolas Maduro Moros and the Venezuelan people, as well as the Bolivarian tidings of the spirit of our Commander, Hugo Chavez Frias.
We have come here with the purpose of announcing some very good news about the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. The first item is that Venezuela is at peace, as witnessed firsthand by the 120 delegations that recently participated in the ministerial conference of the Non-Aligned Movement held in Venezuela — very much despite the media war that powerful media corporations have unleashed to tarnish the reputation of Bolivarian Venezuela and despite the attempted coups d’état by extremist Venezuelan political factions, including even assassination attempts against the Head of State, the entire military and political command and the Venezuelan State authorities, as well as Ambassadors accredited in the country.
The world media says nothing, which is why I commend this space in which peoples can speak to one another, as they are unable to access that same apparatus, which is exclusively at the service of the world hegemonic Power and its satellites. The world media says nothing about the social-protection system in Venezuela, which covers almost 19 million Venezuelan women and men without distinction. This model of inclusion, justice and social protection has been designated as a target for destruction by the Government of the United States of America, and is the true threat posed to its model of capitalist supremacism The Bolivarian model runs intrinsically contrary to the project set in motion by the Monroe Doctrine, which seeks to show that the rest of the Americas is the United States backyard.
Within the framework of extraordinary social programmes, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development stands out as a joint commitment of the General Assembly and as the way forward for this Organization. Here, in this home of the international community, we encourage the development of shared cooperation mechanisms to address the urgent need to preserve our environment, which has been gravely impacted by the devastating capitalist model. We express our solidarity with the brotherly Caribbean people of the Bahamas, recently fallen victim to the ravages of climate change. Moreover, as a country of the Amazon, we raise our voices against the barbaric commercialization of our Amazon, led by the President of Brazil, Mr. Jair Bolsonaro, who has used his extremist ideology to attack the natural lungs of the world. We therefore proclaim that nature is an inalienable right of all peoples.
We also come to this Organization to effectively tackle the urgent issues of poverty and inequality, in a world where 26 individuals possess the same amount of wealth as the 3.8 billion poorest people in the world. We agree with the Secretary-General, Mr. Antonio Guterres, in his call to States to come here with concrete actions, not florid speeches. I would add that they should also not come here with falsehoods and lies as they address the General Assembly. The point is precisely how to achieve these noble and commendable commitments as an international community that has seen grave damage done to its multilateral and legal structure.
I wish to spend some time exposing the coercive unilateral and therefore illegal measures to which millions of people throughout the world are subjected. These measures constitute the use of force that is prohibited by the Charter of the United Nations and international law, which is an attack on peace and security and a massive violation of human rights. Between 2015 and 2019, the Government of the United States has adopted more than 350 unilateral coercive measures against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, including the illegal and undue appropriation of all our resources and assets abroad and a comprehensive financial and commercial blockade that affects health, education and food and which is aimed primarily at suffocating the Venezuelan economy and bringing our people to their knees.
I wish to share some terrifying data with the General Assembly on the dimensions that unilateral coercive measures represent in comparison to conventional wars. It is well known that the use of armed force by the United States military-industrial complex means big business. The past three Presidents of the United States have increased the number of illegal bombings, thereby violating the Charter of the United Nations and without any authorization whatsoever from the Security Council.
Between 2001 and 2009, President George W. Bush launched 70,000 bombs in total, or an average of 24 bombs per day. In the period between 2009 and 2017, under the leadership of President Barack Obama, the United States Government launched 100,000 bombs, raising the daily average to 34 bombs. More recently, with Mr. Donald Trump as President, 44,096 bombs have been launched, breaking the record, with an average of 121 bombs per day. These bombs have caused the entire civilian population to suffer, indiscriminately affecting boys and girls and the elderly.
However, there is a new type of State terrorism being imposed upon our citizens — one that does not involve the use of bombs: in this digital era, banks and insurance companies are able to do damage with the touch of a button. These are precisely the measures being taken by the United States as it exploits the dominance of the dollar as the world’s reserve currency. The United States Department of the Treasury is the economic Pentagon militarizing international relations and punishing millions of innocent people by enforcing doctrines of regime change and blatantly stealing the resources of other nations.
The fact that these measures even exist is proof of the collapse of the international legal order. In this regard, Venezuela has become the greatest evil experiment against multilateralism. Economic terrorism against Venezuela has caused its income to drop by more than a factor of nine. It is estimated that, between 2015 and 2018, the total losses for the Venezuelan economy reached $130 billion owing to the brutal financial blockade imposed by the United States Government, which can only be characterized as a shameless robbery and plundering of our resources.
But Venezuela is not alone. Donald Trump’s supremacist hatred has hooked its imperial claws into the revolution in our sister nation of Cuba, savagely intensifying the extent of these coercive measures in the form of illicit sanctions. It appears that five decades is not long enough for the United States to realize that Cuba will never surrender. Fidel Castro’s Cuba will never submit to any imperialist design after having spent over five decades resisting the economic blockade. What will make them realize that they will never be able to defeat the revolution led by Jose Marti?
Our sisterly nation of Nicaragua was also destined for a similar fate. These three revolutions on our continent — the Sandinista revolution, the revolution led by Jose Marti and the Bolivarian revolution — served as the basis for the project motivated by the Monroe Doctrine. Indeed, the United States Government judges us, promulgating indicators of democracy that it does not even adhere to itself. They judge us when there are 400 people in that country holding more wealth than 240 million others, thereby forming an oligarchy that controls the political life of the majority. A society whose political system is dominated by plutocratic minorities is not a democracy, let alone one with the authority to impose its model on other nations. We call on the United States to be less arrogant and more tolerant in its coexistence with the free nations of the world.
Along the same lines, I want to highlight the special relationship that exists between the primary cocaine producer in the world and the primary consumer of this drug on the planet — I am referring to the narcotic relationship that exists between Colombia and the United States. It has been broadly documented that Colombia produces 70 per cent of all cocaine being consumed in the world, having increased its production in the past year by more than 30 per cent, which is higher than ever before in its production history. I wish to recall that the United States contributed more than $10 billion to the Plan Colombia initiative in order to combat this scourge. United States citizens — the vast majority, not the oligarchy — must feel as though this is a waste of taxpayers’ money and wonder when this is going to stop.
Thanks to Commander Hugo Chavez and President Nicolas Maduro, Venezuela was a supporter of peace agreements praised by this Organization and the global advertising machine. But today, in one fell swoop, President Ivan Duque Marquez is blatantly violating and tearing up those agreements.
Since the signing of those accords, the United Nations has confirmed the murder of 123 former combatants and 739 social leaders in our fellow country Colombia over the past year. Colombia has the highest number of internally displaced persons of any country, at almost 8 million. There are almost 6 million Colombian men and women living in Venezuela alone. The mass media, which serve the interests of the global hegemony, will never report those number.
I wish to dwell on this because two days ago the President of Colombia stood before the General Assembly spewing lies about Venezuela (see A/74/PV.5). He brought here several pieces of what he claimed was evidence that we in Venezuela are harbouring Colombian irregulars. Have we stooped to such a level of disrespect — to come lie to the Assembly?
A brief examination of those photographs — which all members will recognize because the scandal was covered by the media worldwide — reveals that they in fact depict Colombian territory, not that of Venezuela as Mr. Ivan Duque had claimed, in the cases of Cauca and Catatumbo. This violates all mutual assistance mechanisms existing between countries under conventions governing reciprocal cooperation between police and legal systems. The appropriate path is that of diplomacy. What is needed is for countries to establish respectful means of communication in accordance with international law.
I suggest that President Duque grab a pencil because he has forced us to come before the General Assembly to provide specific coordinates for the camps where terrorists are being trained to attack Venezuela. There are three sites in the north-east of President Duque’s country: Santa Marta, Riohacha and Maicao. Let me provide the coordinates for the camps, which will also be given the Secretary-General: Santa Marta, 11°14’19” N 79°6’15”W; Riohacha, 11°32’3” N 75°55’14” W; Maicao, 11°22’39” N 72°13’58” W. We will also provide photographs of the camps, where, again, mercenaries are being trained to attack Venezuela.
Venezuela, for its part, has taken appropriate actions. We turned to public international law and presented the evidence to the Government of Colombia. The Venezuelan public prosecutor also provided all evidence of the presence of persons in the process of committing serious crimes against the constitutional order in Venezuela — terrorism, the attempted assassination of Venezuelan State officials and of President Nicolas Maduro. The official response of the Government of Colombia was to shelter and grant safe harbour to those individuals being sought by the Venezuelan justice system, in flagrant violation of Security Council resolution 1373 (2001).
With those lies, President Duque proved himself not only a bad comedian but also an awful liar. It took less than 24 hours for the truth to come out: that truth is that Venezuela’s robust rule of law guarantees that our inviolable territory has never been used to commit any abuses or crimes against a brotherly country. And I say that fully conscious of my responsibility. The United States and its regional satellites are preparing an act of aggression against Venezuela from Colombia, putting the security and stability of the continent at risk.
As far back as 2015, when President Barack Obama issued the infamous executive order labelling Venezuela as a threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States, President Nicolas Maduro warned us what was on the horizon. That was the starting point of the most obstinate exercise ever carried out by the Organization of American States (OAS), of which Venezuela is no longer a member, when it adopted the provocative and obsolete Inter-American Treaty of Reciprocal Assistance, laying the groundwork to justify armed intervention in Venezuela led by the United States and carried out through other Governments. It is worth noting that all of the measures provided for by that Treaty have already been used against Venezuela except one: armed intervention. That is why we have come before the Assembly to issue a warning in the hope of preventing the conflict that they wish to sow in our region.
Action taken by several parties does not make it multilateralism; it is group unilateralism, intended to bypass the rule of international law. A glance at the history of the OAS is enough to realize that such group unilateralism is responsible for turning that organization into what it is today, that is, a mere spectre of what it once was.
Amid today’s global realities, our Organization, this shared home, is being called upon to play a more proactive role in tackling issues with a direct impact on international peace and security. One of the issues that stands out most — and shamefully so, I would say — is that of the question of Palestine. All of us owe a debt to the Palestinian people, now dating back more than 50 years. They have been denied their inalienable right to self-determination in a free, sovereign and independent State with East Jerusalem as its capital.
We also reject any form of trade war against China. We repudiate the illicit sanctions against Russia. These are two developing world Powers engaged in building a new multipolar and multicentred world with respect for international law.
We likewise reject the sanctions against Iran, North Korea, Syria and Zimbabwe. More than 30 countries have been targeted with such illegal criminal sanctions.
We welcome the election of our brotherly country Mexico to the presidency of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, the legacy of great men like Fidel Castro and Commander Hugo Chavez, who had a great vision of how to reclaim the deepest roots of the freedom and greatness of our lands. We welcome Mexico’s presidency and condemn any kind of offence against the dignity of its people and its name.
We also reaffirm our historic rights over Guayana Esequiba and recall that the Geneva Agreement of 1966, duly deposited with the United Nations, is the only valid and legally binding instrument providing for bilateral negotiations for the resolution of this territorial dispute.
The present massive anti-Venezuelan operation dates back to 2002, when the United States led a coup d’état against President Hugo Chavez, with the support of the very same actors today unfortunately attempting to overthrow our legitimate Government. Something occurred in Venezuela on 23 January that is without precedent in the world: a member of Congress elected with fewer than 90,000 votes stood in a public square and proclaimed himself president of Venezuela. That member of Congress is an imperial puppet. He has no political legitimacy in Venezuela; he is nothing more than an illegitimate and criminal tool, created to undermine stability and peace in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.
His self-proclamation was recognized by a minority of Governments of this unequal world, in perhaps one of the worst mistakes in their diplomatic history. But while the unequal world that favours the few supported that illegal conspiracy, the legitimate Government headed by President Nicolas Maduro received the support of almost two thirds of the States Members of the United Nations allied as the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.
Exactly eight months have passed since that vile, twisted turn in the history of our republic. The legitimate constitutional Government with effective territorial control and the institutional mechanisms of the rule of law continues, and will continue to be, that of President Nicolas Maduro, chosen by us Venezuelans through the exercise of our sacred right to self-determination.
Most of the world supports Venezuela and is well aware that this imperialist farce is tantamount to organized crime. Even graver still was the coordination among that puppet, Colombian paramilitary groups and the Government of Ivan Duque. I take this opportunity to show this photograph of the self-proclaimed president together with a leading member of the Rastrojos paramilitary group. I am showing this to the Assembly to illustrate what we are facing. We are facing the use of criminal gangs and drug-trafficking paramilitary groups to destabilize Venezuela.
This is familiar enough from history. Our sister Nicaragua recalls only too well when the Government of the United States used the Contras to overthrow the Sandinistas. The countries of the Middle East likewise endured terrorist organizations created, armed, financed and used to overthrow Governments that were not in the orbit of the hegemonic Power.
In that regard, I wish to inform the international community that on Wednesday our Ambassador to the International Criminal Court delivered a video containing the full confession of a leader of the Rastrojos paramilitary gang for consideration as part of the preliminary examination on Colombia and paramilitary activities.
Precisely with a view to achieving, guaranteeing and preserving peace and order in our republic, President Nicolas Maduro invited all segments of society to participate in a sovereign dialogue. Our commitment to a constitutional approach is unshakable.
We have brought this story to light in order to warn the world and the international community about these twisted machinations, on the edge of legality, which tomorrow could, without any justification, impact any other country the global hegemon might decide to openly rob of its resources or change the Government at any cost. Venezuela is and will continue to be united, unique and indivisible. We are the Venezuela that Bolivar and our liberators would never surrender to any empire.
The Government of the United States has supported this illegitimate enterprise by the brutal and criminal imposition of an all-out embargo. The United States had imposed 6,000 coercive measures against dozens of countries around the world by 2014. Today, in 2019, the number of illicit unilateral coercive measures has risen to 8,000. Such measures constitute the preferred weapon for domination in the twenty-first century, with least cost and greatest benefit in neocolonialist terms.
Thirty-two countries are today subject to such economic aggression by the United States Government and, according to the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations on the negative impact of the unilateral coercive measures, one third of humankind is suffering the consequences of this form of collective punishment. The Non-Aligned Movement just yesterday approved a statement firmly rejecting the application of such illicit sanctions. This is a new form of economic terrorism that uses the suffering of innocent civilians to generate political benefits for the global hegemon. Moreover, in our digital age, it illegally yields billions of dollars at the touch of a button.
I brought with me to read out two statements made in 2018, the first from the United States Department of State: “The pressure campaign is working. The financial sanctions we have placed on the Venezuelan Government have forced it to begin becoming in default, both on sovereign and PDVSA, its oil company’s debt. And what we are seeing [...] is a total economic collapse in Venezuela. So our policy is working, our strategy is working and we’re going to keep it”.
There can be no doubt this criminal confession flagrantly violated the Charter of the United Nations.
The second statement was made by former Ambassador William Brownfield: “We must treat this like an agony, a tragedy that will continue until it comes to an end. If we can do something that will bring that end quicker, we probably should do it, but we should do it understanding that it’s going to have an impact on millions and millions of people who are already having great difficulty finding enough to eat, getting themselves cured when they get sick, or finding clothes to put on their children before they go off to school. We don’t get to do this and pretend as though it has no impact there. We have to make the hard decision — the desired outcome justifies this fairly severe punishment.”
And what outcome does the United States of America desire? It seeks to defeat the Bolivarian Revolution and maintain its hegemony in every corner of the world. It also attacks Iran, Russia and China — countries engaged in building a new world. It pursues nefarious policies to effect the illicit doctrine of regime change.
Given these grave claims, Venezuela calls for the investigation of all these blatant violations by the United States of the Charter of the United Nations. There can be no doubt they constitute crimes against humanity in respect of Venezuela and the world — the perpetrators have admitted as much.
What measures must we take to correct the abusive conduct of the Government of the United States, which causes such suffering even to its own people? I would say to President Trump that his people expects its leaders to be truly committed to democracy and to eradicating poverty and inequality. They expect not to be drawn into wars of any kind. The people of Walt Whitman has more in common with its poets than with the arrogant and supremacist prose its Government brandishes so recklessly. The world expects the United States to change course immediately, to subject itself, once and for all, to international law and to show respect for our common home.
Seventy-five years since the founding of the United Nations, we aspire to a robust Organization, free of unjust constraints and able to restrain the illegitimate exercise of power. Let us have less ostentatious rhetoric. As the Secretary-General has said, let us say yes to more concrete and effective action. Let us, in chorus, form a common front in defence of the Charter of the United Nations and its principles and purposes, which are the basis of international law and the raison d’être of the Organization. Only in this way will we guarantee the survival of the human species and the harmonious and lawful coexistence of the community of nations.
I conclude my statement by reaffirming that Venezuela is and will remain at peace, cared for by a dignified, courageous people that steadfastly rejects submission. We are an infinite legacy of the sword that we inherited from our liberator and father Simon Bolivar. By his spirit we entered the world so as to never give space to the Santander and oligarchic betrayal of the free peoples of the great homeland. Let us build a common front to defend the United Nations Charter and the happiness of our peoples. In the words of the poet Benedetti, happiness should be defended as a trench, as a principle, as a flag, as a right. With our Bolivar, let us shed our fear and save our homeland. Today we say, let us shed our fear and save the world from capitalist violence.


===== Session 75 - 2020 =====
H.E. Mr. Volkan Bozkir, President of the General Assembly,
H.E. Mr. Antonio Guterres, Secretary-General,
Heads of State, Heads of Government,
Authorities participating in this 75th Session of the UN General Assembly,
At the outset, I want to apologize for removing my face mask, which is necessary in this time of pandemic, and I want to greet all who watch and listen to us around the world.
Allow me to congratulate you, Mr. President, on behalf of the Constitutional Government of Venezuela and the People of our Bolivarian Republic for assuming the Presidency of this 75th Session of the General Assembly. A great occasion of great importance due to the stellar situation that humanity is going through caused by this world emergency generated by the COVID-19. I say a stellar situation because, in addition to posing serious difficulties for the complex planetary order, it is also an opportunity to reflect on and promote the change of paradigms that humanity itself, especially the great majorities who are vulnerable to poverty and exclusion, expect so much from us, so much from world leaders.
In this same General Assembly, in 2001, our Eternal Commander Hugo Chavez
said,
“We come, then, without fear, in good faith and with much optimism about life, brotherhood, unity and the possibility that we, as the leaders of our countries, can seek, grasp and build together real solutions to real problems in the quest for justice and peace.”
From Venezuela, we believe that the world must be completely revised, with a great magnifying glass said Commander Chavez; a very powerful magnifying glass, because the world has become very bad, it has been stumbling from one mistake to another. It was a call made by Commander Chavez in 2001, to take a sense of reality in the re-founding of the United Nations Organization. And we have arrived at 2020, insisting on this need for renewal of the paradigms.
Venezuela recognizes that, in these 75 years, the United Nations Organization has given great contributions to humanity. However, we demand more will and efforts to preserve the achievements, to advance in new objectives. We insist on the need to strengthen South-South cooperation and to create alternative mechanisms for financing and technical support that will back up the initiatives and priorities defined by our peoples to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. This is a timely and urgent task and every day counts. “The South also thinks, the South also matters, the South also exists”, as the poet Benedetti said, from his centennial presence.
We must all work to save our planet. We make a call to achieve the highest political commitment to fight climate change which is a reality and an urgent priority. We recognize the importance of strengthening mitigation and adaptation actions, in accordance with the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement. We therefore reaffirm the importance of the means of implementation for developing countries to carry out their climate actions. Noam Chomsky recently warned, “there is not much time left”.
Mr. President,
The United Nations and humanity as a whole face a deep and complex crisis, combining the COVID-19 pandemic with the global climate change challenges and sustainable development.
Added to this disturbing scenario is the no less alarming claim of the great powers to lead humanity into direct confrontation in the military sphere. This would be, perhaps, the last one for our species. The United States of America, far from taking a positive or proactive leadership position, conducts itself erratically under a government that is intransigent and hostile to diplomacy and high politics, since it openly disregards multilateralism and any type of pre-existing global rule.
The COVID-19 pandemic has come to change the realities and priorities of all humanity, because of its consequences for human life. The pandemic has made evident the inequalities in the world and exacerbated them. Unfortunately, some contingency measures in the face of the pandemic have increased the social and economic gaps within countries. That is why the international community, as a whole, must provide a global and coordinated response to support all nations in need, helping to create the conditions for stronger economies and more inclusive societies.
Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, the collapse of the international geopolitical and geo-economic order was already taking place. However, this emergency has made us aware of and critically think about the contradictions of capitalism and its logical and operational inability to deal with these crises. In many cases, the States were reduced to a minimum expression and the imposed neo-liberalism suffocated the public institutions, turning the rights of the people into private services; health became a luxury. Let us hear in the streets of the world the fury of the peoples who feel orphaned and unprotected! The health and well-being of the population are not merchandise; the market cannot continue to regulate the destiny of humanity!
Venezuela believes that the role of the World Health Organization (WHO) should be an example of multilateralism that we need to strengthen. The WHO must be an organization that acts and speaks faithfully, without bowing to pressure, extortion and attacks from the powerful; that confirms its moral authority, its scientific capacity and cooperation based on solidarity.
We welcome the enormous scientific efforts of sisterly nations such as Russia, China and Cuba in creating an effective and safe vaccine against COVID-19, and we trust that such findings will be considered a global public good by each of our nations, with free access for all the peoples of the world, without discrimination.
From the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, we propose the creation of a revolving public purchasing fund within the United Nations System to guarantee access to food and health products, financed with public resources. This will make it possible to face discrimination and the economic blockade against countries by making it easier for governments to acquire necessary goods and services.
We call for the strengthening of financing policies and funds aimed at the development of local production chains and new economic actors, as well as the creation of a bank of free technologies and universal education and training processes.
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela advocates the adoption of a legally binding international instrument on development and the right to development, which will strengthen the struggle of peoples to overcome poverty and social inequalities and for social justice.
Our re-election as a member of the United Nations Human Rights Council, by the sovereign and majority votes of the countries represented in the United Nations System — despite the incessant attacks by the U.S. empire and its satellites — has reaffirmed our commitment to promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms of all people, without distinction of any kind and in a fair and equitable manner, strongly supporting any initiative in the fight against ethnic, gender, nationality and other related forms of intolerance. We are committed to upholding the principles of universality, impartiality, objectivity, non-politicization, and nonselectivity in their implementation. We are committed to international, intercultural, constructive, and cooperative dialogue to advance the promotion and protection of all human rights, including, of course, the right to comprehensive development of peoples.
Mr. President,
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela ratifies its commitment to the peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with the principles set forth in the United Nations Charter and, in that sense, in relation to the territorial dispute over Guayana Esequiba, Venezuela reiterates its strict adherence to the Geneva Agreement of 1966. In particular, we emphasize the object, purpose, and reason for the Geneva Agreement, which clearly mandates reaching a practical, satisfactory, and mutually acceptable solution through successive mechanisms provided for in Article 33 of the United Nations Charter. It is through political, diplomatic and mutually agreed upon negotiation that we will reach the solution of this dispute inherited from imperial colonialism.
Mr. President,
The world has continued to face many injustices that affect innocent peoples, threatening their extermination; actions of States that are unjustified and inadmissible and that embarrass humanity.
Let us once again reiterate our support and solidarity with the Arab people of Palestine and demand respect for their historic territories established in 1967 by this United Nations Organization.
We support the call of the United Nations to put an end to the infamous, criminal, almost 60-year-old blockade against our sisterly nation of Cuba and, in this regard, we reaffirm the call to the U.S. government to immediately put an end to the economic, commercial and financial blockade it imposes on our sisterly nation.
Mr. President,
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela reiterates its commitment to the need to promote and strengthen dialogue and cooperation by building bridges among peoples, respecting cultural and religious differences, through conflict prevention, reconciliation and peacebuilding. The Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) has promoted the recognition of these initiatives, policies and values, with the celebration of the International Day of Multilateralism and Diplomacy for Peace, and has joined the Group of Friends of the UN Alliance of Civilizations, who are waving the flags of pluralism and equity. There is still much to be done, and we will do it.
Mr. President,
Venezuela, as you know, is under constant attack. Our beloved Homeland is the victim of a multiform attack by the U.S. Empire, in the media field, in the political field, in the economic field; we have even been threatened with direct military aggressions.
The unilateral measures imposed by the Government of the United States of America have tried to subdue the Venezuelan people. However, our people, together with the Constitutional Government, have heroically resisted the opprobrium, the illegality, the inhumanity of an empire which today represents the most serious threat facing the multi-polar and multi-centered world.
Today, standing up, and with the dignity of the people, children of the glories of the Liberator Simon Bolivar, we say to the supremacist Government of the United States that the world is watching them, that the 21st century has millions of eyes that see beyond the media matrices. There is still time to return to international legality. We tell you that you are still in time to reverse the discredit and global malaise that your arbitrariness and arrogance provoke in the conscious world. Continuing on the path of violation of the United Nations Charter will lead them inexorably to the isolation, discredit and condemnation of the history of peoples, including that of their own people, the people of the United States, who have taken to the streets to protest against racism, against police brutality, against abuse.
Unilateral coercive measures have awakened not only the indignation and repudiation of the peoples against the alleged global dictatorship raised from the United States, which is trying to impose on us, but have also generated cohesion and national initiatives around new forms of production, technical and technological solutions. Inventiveness has been the answer to the persecution of our national industry. This is what the real Venezuelan is like, of flesh and bone, who is so hidden and who they try so hard to despise. Today I can tell you, Excellency that a revolution of innovation has been unleashed in our Homeland, a new offensive to transform into a virtuous cycle of opportunities the attempts of aggression to make our nation collapse.
We have made a titanic effort with our own capacities, in addition to the solidarity and cooperation of friendly countries and the United Nations System to confront the entire COVID-19 pandemic situation. We have avoided the worst, despite the plans, prognoses and catastrophic wishes of those who attack us. Neither the illegal blockade, nor the aggressions against our government have distracted us and prevented us from fulfilling a great effort: the goal of protecting the lives of our population.
Today we can say that we have applied about 1.9 million free tests, which has represented, today, the average of 62,489 tests per million inhabitants. We can say that we are the Latin American and Caribbean country that has carried out the most tests on its people; we say this with humility and with the desire to always help the neighboring countries from whom, with frequency, we only receive aggressions from their governments. This, which is a Venezuelan truth, you will not hear it, you will not see it on the front pages of the traditional media, much less in the social networks or on the Internet; the blockade is also communicational.
That is why I want to stop and share our experience that could save lives in other places on the planet, just as the experience of China, Cuba and Russia has done with us.
Our social and health protection system allows us to go house to house to look for positive cases and to attend to suspicious or potential cases. We count on it; with the medical missions and the automatized protection system called Patria Web System, where more than 20 million citizens, adults, of a population of 30 million inhabitants, are registered, equivalent, as you can see, to more than two thirds of the population. This territorial system has allowed us to reach all the communities in our country. We have our own model, designed on the principle of prioritizing the lives of all equally. Thanks to this, we have been able to combine a healthy distance with the productive life of the country. We have called it the “Seven by Seven System” and we make it available to all nations, with the modesty that characterizes us. Seven days: a week of shelter in the homes, of deep quarantine, and seven days, a week of economic flexibility, broad and general; which ensures the implementation of a new normality, until we can overcome this pandemic.
Our government has prepared to face this challenge together with our people; we have the superior level of awareness that the Venezuelan population has accumulated and the efficiency of our public health system. In this way, we have been able to control the first signs of this pandemic that has battered the world, gaining time to improve all the protocols for prevention, treatment and protection of our people.
Venezuela is one of the few countries to apply free and differentiated treatment for the cases detected: asymptomatic, mild symptomatic, moderate symptomatic and severe symptomatic. Our policy of prevention and attention implies the total hospitalization of all positive cases, even when they do not present symptoms. This has prevented us from the exponential expansion of this disease.
Mr. President,
More than $30 billion dollars have been taken from the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, frozen and held in bank accounts in the United States and Europe. Likewise, any company or government that commercializes any good or service with our country be food, medicine, fuel, additives needed to produce gasoline — which our people need — etc., is being persecuted.
That is why we ratify to the world that Venezuela has prepared to resist and is resisting this offensive of criminal, inhumane aggression. Venezuela has prepared to overcome this blockade by the government of the United States of North America. It is a battle for pace, for our Homeland, for the region, for humanity. Our heroic Venezuelan people has assumed in the past the responsibility of its historical role before the ignominy of the most dangerous empire of the universal history; an empire that at the same time is writing the most horrifying chapters of inhumanity and criminal imposition. The world must know that we are prepared to fight them with the force of our history, our spirit, reason and international law.
I wish to reiterate once again our deep appreciation for the pronouncement of both the Secretary-General and the High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, demanding the immediate lifting of unilateral and criminal coercive measures, which are not only contrary to the United Nations Charter, but are clear obstacles imposed on the affected countries to adequately address the COVID-19 pandemic and the compliance with the Sustainable Development Goals.
The attacks — as you know — are not limited only to the unilateral coercive measures. On May 3rd, Venezuela faced an attempted maritime incursion by a group of mercenaries and terrorists, financed by the government of the United States and trained on Colombian territory, with the total and absolute support of the U.S. and Colombian governments. This group of terrorists was confronted in real time by the civic-military police union, and the perpetrators of this attack, of this armed incursion against Venezuela, were neutralized and captured, and are under the orders of the judicial institutions for due process.
Likewise, we recently captured an American spy with war weapons and documents related to our oil and electric industry. It is a daily siege that we have been facing, dismantling, denouncing, unveiling one by one.
And I ask myself: How can a terrorist action be qualified in the midst of an extraordinary humanitarian circumstance such as the one we are living with the COVID-19 pandemic? Can humanity qualify it? The least we can say is that the excess has been imposed, which is the most terrible sin that seems to have taken over completely the North American elites.
That is why the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela reiterates the need to vindicate the principles of respect for sovereignty, for the self-determination of the peoples, expressed in the United Nations Charter, which unite us all, whose illegal violation by some Member States of this Organization, motivated by ignoble reasons, is endangering the stability of our country and the Latin-Caribbean region.
It is necessary that the countries that defend peace activate themselves and make the Government of the United States understand that, in the midst of a pandemic, no one understands nor explain that there is an upsurge of criminal prosecution, of the blockade against noble countries such as Cuba, Nicaragua, Venezuela, Syria, Iran and other brotherly countries of the world. For this reason, we must demand the cessation of all unilateral coercive measures, of all the alleged sanctions, and that they allow our peoples exercise their own rights, the right to development and peace. The United States and its Government must abandon the old practice of criminalizing those of us who do not subordinate to their orders in this world and maintain, as we do it, a policy of independence and sovereignty. The United States — we must say this — in the course history, has become the most serious threat to peace in this world.
We wish to endorse the words of the United Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, on the ceasefire and cessation of conflicts in the world, reiterating unrestricted respect and full adherence to the purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter and international law, in particular, respect to sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of States, dialogue among nations, the peaceful resolution of disputes and the prohibition of the threats or use of force as such.
Mr. President,
Venezuela has traditionally been a host country of refugees and migrants. However, as a direct consequence of the criminal unilateral coercive measures and the economic aggressions imposed by the government of the United States on our people, a process of migration of citizens has taken place, fundamentally for economic reasons.
Nevertheless, at present, our country is facing and experiencing a wave of voluntary, massive returns of thousands of Venezuelan migrants, from the countries with very high levels of COVID-19 infections, such as Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Chile, Brazil, motivated by different reasons, the most important being the failure of COVID-19 management in those countries. Secondly, the systematic violation of the human rights of Venezuelan migrants, anachronistic and xenophobic policies against migrants of our country, including from high levels of government in those countries; discrimination, mistreatment, lack of socio-economic conditions, a situation of semi-slavery, human trafficking, calamities that our migrants have suffered in clear violation of their human dignity. What has been the reaction of the world - we wonder - that says to be concerned for Venezuela in the face of these reprehensible facts: complicit silence.
As we said, the COVID-19 pandemic has catalysed the already unsustainable living conditions of thousands of migrants in the so-called host countries, who have reported the worsening of abandonment and the lack of response and attention from the authorities in those countries. The fragility of the social protection systems of these countries has become evident, and they are sometimes presented as social and economic models. And we wonder once again, how is it possible, despite the great amount of dollars that have been given to these governments through extravagant donor recruitment conferences for Venezuelan migrants? What did they do with that money? Did these governments steal it? We believe that we must certainly review, with institutional and scientific rigour the role that some United Nations Agencies, or some people from some Agencies, have been playing in these processes, such as UNHCR and the International Organization for Migration (IOM).
Mr. President,
For the sake of the reconciliation and complying with the agreements reached in the National Dialogue Table between the Venezuelan political forces, in September 2019, a series of measures have been adopted to benefit and guarantee democracy in Venezuela. Recently, 110 citizens belonging to right-wing opposition groups were pardoned and prosecuted for several crimes related to aggression against our country. With this decision, we seek to continue building the path towards national reconciliation, understanding that peace deserves all efforts and we will not cease, Mr. President, in our commitment to this task.
In faithful compliance with the provisions established in our National Constitution, approved in a referendum by the Venezuelan People in December 1999, the 25th democratic election in 20 years will be held next Sunday, December 6th, 2020. This time, to renew the Legislative Power, with the participation of more than 14,400 candidates, from more than 107 political organizations from the entire national ideological spectrum.
In Venezuela, I can tell you, there are all the necessary guarantees to hold the parliamentary elections and that is why we have invited the world to join us, to be witnesses of a living democracy, nothing and nobody will be able to take away from the Venezuelan people the right to elect the new Legislative Power, since this is a fundamental tool for collective existence and will be an expression of the will of the original power. No one decides for us Venezuelans; we do not intervene nor do we intend to do so in any case — ever — before any other nation, we are respectful and thus we demand respect.
Even so, the Government of Washington, which has led its own people to the collapse of the pandemic — which, by the way, will hold presidential elections next November, in blatant violation of international law, illegally imposed new unilateral coercive measures against the Venezuelan democratic institutions, in this case, the Electoral Power, to try to interfere with the conduct of the parliamentary election provided for in our Constitution. This is why, the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela reiterates the need to vindicate the principles of respect to sovereignty and self determination of the peoples, expressed in the United Nations Charter, whose illegal violation by some Member States of this Organization is intended to lead Venezuela to violence and conflict. We will not allow it. We demand respect. The Venezuelan path is of peace, democracy, freedom, vote, participation and protagonism of the people. That is how it has been, and that is how it will be.
Mr. President,
Authorities of the world,
Heads of State, Heads of Government,
Here is Venezuela standing. With its historical dignity, in peace. Ready for new challenges; ready for new victories. I bid you farewell, wishing for union, peace and cooperation of the whole world.
Thank you very much.

===== Session 76 - 2021 =====
At the start of the annual session of the General Assembly, I would like to convey greetings to all countries of the United Nations. I greet the peoples and the Governments of the 194 countries that are present at this session of the General Assembly; in particular Mr. Abdulla Shahid, who assumed the Presidency of this year’s session of the General Assembly. I wish you every success.
The annual Assembly of the United Nations is an event, which, every September, brings together Heads of Government, Heads of State, Presidents, Prime Ministers and the world’s highest-ranking authorities, to discuss our positions and debate ideas in a world that must continue building a multipolar, pluricentric structure, without imperial hegemonism.
This is the second time that our General Assembly session is being affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. We find ourselves participating in this session of the General Assembly at United Nations headquarters in New York from our countries — from our countries’ official Government headquarters.
I convey greetings to all Ambassadors and high-ranking officials who, from their countries and from headquarters in New York, amid the pandemic, share their views of what should obtain for humankind in the twenty-first century, leaving no room for doubt. They share their views about building a new world of peace, cooperation and dialogue, based on ideological, cultural, political and religious diversity and brings together the cultures of peoples across the whole of planet Earth.
Undoubtedly, it must mean building a new world and a new human community— a world without hegemonic empires; a world liberated from attempts at economic, financial, military, political domination by a hegemon, empire or those, who, for centuries upon centuries, plundered, dominated, exploited and oppressed the peoples of the world with the old rapacious colonialism. Today, they attempt new forms of neocolonialism against our people — new forms of domination, looting, oppression and exploitation of the peoples of the world.
That is why at a General Assembly affected by the pandemic and from the very heart of our beloved homeland, Venezuela raises its voice in support of a new world without colonialism; a new world without imperialism; a new world without a dominant hegemon; a new world based on sharing, cooperation and a human community with a shared destiny. It is the multipolar, pluricentric world we long for and the reason we join the fight by all peoples of the world and the peoples of the South, in particular, based on the doctrine of the Non-Aligned Movement, the South- South doctrine — our doctrine, our vision, our commitment.
Venezuela has received strong and majority support from the Governments of the world as we addressed our country’s challenges in recent years. There is no doubt that our people have received solidarity, support and cooperation from dozens of countries represented here at the United Nations. They were able to listen to the voice of truth from our earnest people.
On several occasions, Venezuela has taken to the United Nations General Assembly and organizations of the United Nations system to condemn the fierce attacks on and campaigns waged against our country by the elites that have governed the United States. Such attacks are perpetrated with the support of the elites that head organizations in Europe and elsewhere.
They sought to use international organizations and international law to justify fierce campaigns and criminal attacks against the noble, peaceful and democratic people of Venezuela. On several occasions, we denounced those attacks at the headquarters of various organizations, and we do so again today at the United Nations General Assembly in New York.
At this session of the General Assembly, in September 2021, Venezuela denounces the fierce campaign and ongoing and systematic aggression, via cruel economic, financial and oil sanctions, persecution of our people and their right to economic freedom, and their economic rights and guarantees, which should be enjoyed by all peoples of the world.
There is a fierce campaign against our right to purchase what our country needs and against our right to sell what our country produces, in particular vast oil and mining resources, on Venezuelan territory, which we have exploited for decades. Financial accounts are being investigated; gold from the legal international reserves of the Central Bank of Venezuela in London has been seized and frozen, and billions of dollars in bank accounts in the United States, Europe and beyond have been confiscated and frozen.
Venezuelan oil and mining companies are banned from trading their products and opening bank accounts across the world for the purposes of making purchases, collecting payments and conducting business transactions freely, as stipulated under international law.
It is cruel and is, in essence, criminal and systematic financial, monetary, commercial, economic and energy persecution. Venezuela therefore raises its voice in condemnation of such persecution before the peoples of the world.
For years, we have faced threats, fierce campaigns and aggression. I can tell you today, from the heart of Caracas, which witnessed the birth of those who liberated America, that the Venezuelan people, with their great capacity for resilience and resistance, rose up. The year 2021 is a special and wonderful year in which we marked the 200th anniversary of the resounding victory of the Battle of Carabobo. We already celebrated the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Carabobo for our independence. In 2021, we have already moved from the cruel and painful phase of resistance to a phase of recovery and sustained growth with science, innovation, technology and the spiritual capacity of hardworking people, who refuse to yield. We are a rebellious and free people, who have grown from all the difficulties that have affected us over the years.
We have chosen the path of recovery and comprehensive growth for our nation. We have chosen to deploy the productive forces of a country subjected to an infernal blockade, criminal persecution and cruel torture of its economic and social fabric. We courageously and decisively say to the peoples of the world, with intelligence and wisdom, that it is possible to confront imperial aggression and move forward.
That is why we again demand the lifting of all criminal sanctions by the United States of America and by the Governments of the European Union against the Venezuelan economy and society. We demand it based on logical and moral grounds. We say it on behalf of 30 million Venezuelan men and women. We are grateful for the support of the countries of the United Nations in advancing this great objective of our country and our region.
I take this opportunity to reaffirm our solidarity with and our support for the Republic of Cuba and the people of Cuba, in their request, endorsed 27 times by a majority vote at the United Nations, for the immediate lifting of all trade and economic blockade measures against the Republic of Cuba and the people of Cuba. Venezuela also raises its voice in support of justice and out of solidarity with Cuba — a Republic and a heroic people.
In this regard, our country was able to face and overcome all these circumstances. That is why we believe it is necessary to circulate within the United Nations Secretariat, from the Presidency of the annual General Assembly to all levels of representative Embassies and Governments, the official findings of the report of the Special Rapporteur on the negative impact of unilateral coercive measures on the enjoyment of human rights, who made a seven-day visit to Venezuela this year. The Special Rapporteur issued a very objective, raw and realistic report on these criminal sanctions and recommended that they be lifted immediately and that international law, international humanitarian law, be respected. The Rapporteur also recommended that Venezuela’s right to freedom; its economic, commercial and financial guarantees and the full exercise of its rights as a sovereign member of the United Nations be respected.
In 2021, we also welcomed the fact that Venezuela is moving forward in two main directions — in inclusive dialogue towards peace in our country and in marking the twenty-ninth electoral process in the past 20 years. Major elections will be held on 21 November 2021 for the people to elect regional, municipal and local authorities, as mandated by our country’s Bolivarian Constitution.
This year, we started several rounds of dialogue with the business sector, the social sector, trade unions and the political arena. We reaffirmed the path of dialogue and recently launched, on 13 August, a national dialogue forum for peace and sovereignty in Mexico City.
It is a very important dialogue process that seeks out the most extremist opposition forces that attempted to carry out a coup d’etat in Venezuela. They encouraged foreign invasion of our lands and planned to assassinate me. We hoped that those extremist sectors would return to politics, the Constitution and the electoral path.
I can say to the United Nations that we have succeeded. We succeeded in having them return to politics, the Constitution and the electoral path. Now, with the support of the Government of President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador in Mexico; the special diplomatic assistance of the Kingdom of Norway; the direct presence of the Government of the Russian Federation and the Government of the Netherlands, we are implementing a comprehensive agenda to bring about social and economic recovery in Venezuela through dialogue.
I thank the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Antonio Guterres, for his support in the dialogue process in Mexico. I request the full support of the United Nations to ensure that the dialogue process in Mexico advances towards new partial agreements and a global agreement to strengthen peace, sovereignty, prosperity and bring about comprehensive recovery in Venezuela. That is my request and I thank you. In that regard, Venezuela will remain in all international forums.
We stated in the organizations responsible for climate change that a practical, verifiable response is urgently needed for action against greenhouse gas emissions, global warming of the oceans and the environment and all climate change-related events and disasters. Verifiable and effective action measures are needed to halt the acceleration of the processes that undermine planet Earth’s ecological balance.
Over the years, and even, recently, in this city that is home to the headquarters of the United Nations, New York, we have seen major flooding. We have seen simultaneous fires and flooding in India, China, New York, Spain and Venezuela. We have seen major drought in southern South America and the unprecedented drying up of the Parana River. Such events compel us to demand that powerful Governments take efficient and effective action to reduce global warming and greenhouse gas emissions and give hope to the world in the face of a truly worrisome and tragic situation for many people on planet Earth.
The United Nations system, without a doubt, the multilateral world and international law — it is these spaces that must be strengthened. It is the sovereignty of peoples in a courageous world, based on international law. A new world must be built. It is a new world that emerges from Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean and from the peoples of the United States of America. A new world is being reborn to put an end to old hegemons and to those that claim to police and judge the peoples of the world.
It is time for freedom, sovereignty and independence to reign. A new world needs a new United Nations so that we can all share life and solidarity and the just and necessary path of a new community — the new world.
Venezuela raises its own voice in support of that new world.
Thank you very much, dear rulers of the world.
Thank you very much to all the peoples and authorities of the United Nations.
Thank you very much.


===== Session 77 - 2022 =====
I take this opportunity to read a letter from President Nicolas Maduro Moros for the peoples of the world.
“The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela extends a greeting of brotherhood to the Presidents, Heads of Government and Prime Ministers of the 193 countries of the United Nations.
“Likewise, we salute Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, Mr. Csaba Korosi, President of the General Assembly, and other authorities present at this seventy-seventh annual general debate, wishing them every success in the development of this important debate of ideas for timely and collective action in the face of common problems.
“I take the time allotted to us to speak in this forum, on behalf of 30 million Venezuelan men and women, to send an open letter to humankind, which I believe is the sole addressee and purpose that gives meaning to the words of a twenty-first century leader, above all at such a crucial moment for the world, when greater stewardship is needed from the peoples in creating alternatives to transform reality. It is also because we have never been so aware of being a single community, one and multiple at the same time, as we are now as the very thing we share and that makes us equal — life itself — hangs in the balance. This letter comes from the heart of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, a country that many have heard of and of which, paradoxically, little is known in relation to its political truth, its historical identity and its concrete reality.
“Certainly, a pernicious global campaign of discredit and stigmatization has been waged against our people, our republican institutions and our democratic revolution, for the simple fact that, in the waning days of the last century, we challenged the single-minded regime that was imposed on the world under the mask of the market economy and neoliberal globalization — a model that, in the name of freedom, became the modern version of colonization.
“The aim of this campaign against Venezuela is none other than to create the objective conditions to politically and economically suffocate any attempt to create alternatives to the imperialist and predatory system that capitalism, in all its historical phases, has turned out to be. Imposing their false story, they accuse us of being a dictatorship and a failed State to hide the truth from the world. During the past two decades, my country has held 29 free elections that have defined the social, economic and political model that we call Bolivarian socialism. That is why we have been attacked in multiple ways.
“The peoples of the world should know that every kind of playbook has been applied to Venezuela to destabilize its democracy.
“Politically, imperialism has been unsuccessfully using the illegal method of regime change. They have promoted assassination attempts and invasions, created seditious movements against the Constitution, and even invented a fictitious parallel Government that bordered on the ridiculous.
“Economically, few know that 913 illegal sanctions weigh on our small but dignified country, which, in a word, prevent my people from selling and buying what they produce and need for the development and enjoyment of our individual and collective existence. This translates concretely into suffering, deprivation and systematic attacks that restrict life and the collective rights of my country, which is why we do not hesitate to denounce such cruel measures as crimes against humanity. This economic war, whose losses for my nation have exceeded $150 billion dollars in recent years, intensified during the most serious phase of the global pandemic, making it impossible for us to buy medical supplies, medicines and vaccines.
“The stigmatization has also served Europe and the United States as an alibi for carrying out the most shameless plundering that has been committed against our patrimony and assets abroad. More than 31 tons of Venezuelan gold reserves deposited in the Bank of England, calculated to be worth $1.3 billion, remain sequestered. Another example is the theft of the Citgo Petroleum Corporation, valued at more than $30 billion in February 2019, adding to the more than $10 billion of Venezuelan deposits and funds illegally blocked in foreign banks.
“But these illegal sanctions have never been able to bend the will of our people, but have strengthened it in the same way that the conscience and the resolve to be free are strengthened. Neither have they sidetracked us from our path to social justice. Even in the worst circumstances, our model protects and prioritizes human beings in their social rights: access to housing, education, health, work and culture.
“This act of piracy against our country, however, has left deep wounds in society. Those include induced migration, which is flaunted in the media for political and propaganda purposes precisely by those who have propagated and promoted it with false promises and a blockade of their living conditions. Nothing is said about the fact that 60 per cent of the Venezuelans who migrated have voluntarily returned to their country, fleeing conditions of slavery and exploitation, as well as the mistreatment and persecution to which they have been subjected in many countries of the world. Also hidden from the world is the fact that the Venezuelan State is the only one that has a repatriation policy through its airline, Conviasa, which has been permanently boycotted due to illegal sanctions.
“We ask the multilateral organizations: where have the millions in resources supposedly earmarked to support Venezuelan migrants gone? Accountability would be useful in clearing up the opacity with which such allocations have been carried out. In the same way, we demand that multilateral organizations guarantee the rights of all migrants throughout the world. We do so with the moral authority of a country that, for more than 100 years, has been a beneficiary of good practices towards its migrant population. In this vein, we alert the peoples of the world to the resurgence of xenophobia and aporophobia, hate speech and crimes, and intolerance in general incubated by neo-fascist and neo-Nazi movements that find shelter in political parties and ultra-conservative and far-right Governments.
“Humankind, which sees and listens to us today, has the right to know that, even in the most extreme conditions that I have summarized here, our people have not given up. Quite the contrary, they have paved the way for the consolidation of social peace, economic recovery and the strengthening of democracy. We know in our own flesh the adversity and the miracles that our own will and effort can work. For this reason and from concrete experience, we have built consensus around social and political peace. We have launched an economic plan to confront the blockade, creating new sources of wealth such as tourism, national industrialization, entrepreneurship and agricultural development.
“For the first time in 120 years, we are producing 80 per cent of what we consume and can therefore affirm that we are in a position to join efforts to face the great threats that loom over the world. As one of the main world Powers in oil and gas matters, Venezuela can and wants to be useful, as a member of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, in the energy emergency that has been dragging on for a decade and profoundly affecting the price and supply system, impacting the poorest and richest countries alike.
“The coronavirus disease pandemic and the conflict between Ukraine and Russia have dramatically aggravated the situation. However, beyond our historical ability to guarantee, as an irreplaceable producer, the energy balance demanded by the international community, we are concerned about the impact of the various world conflicts on food security. Venezuela has 30 million cultivable hectares and is convinced that only a return to sustainable agriculture can help overcome world hunger and poverty. We offer our potential and our firm determination to work actively in the search for global solutions.
“Undoubtedly, all nations are beset by various problems, each of such profound complexity and gravity that it would be difficult to rank them. Perhaps, of all of them, one of the most imperative is that of world peace and security, which today is severely weakened, as has been mentioned by all those who have preceded me at this rostrum. Regardless of our ideological positions, we must agree on the need to prioritize the re-establishment of the diplomatic path and political dialogue over military confrontation. Humankind will not survive a world war. Therefore, an escalation of war in any part of the world is in no one’s interest.
“For my country, a people that has never participated in an international armed conflict, there is no other way than peace, justice, trust and respect for international law. We therefore endorse the proposal of President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, who calls for the creation of an international commission to facilitate sovereign dialogue between Russia and Ukraine, and we stand ready to facilitate its conditions. We reject all the military provocations and interfering economic sanctions that have been taken against Russia, as well as the hate campaign unleashed against the Slavic people, believing that such actions, far from adding to peace, fuel the fire of war. In my country’s opinion — and I am sure that public opinion is on our side — there is no such thing as good wars and bad wars.
“After the United States invasion of Afghanistan in 2001, international trust was broken and the contradictions typical of an imperialist and supremacist logic became more acute. Since then, we have seen blood spilled with impunity in Iraq, Yemen, Haiti, Somalia, Libya and Syria, to name just a few milestones in the shameful tragedy that is destroying indispensable international law.
“Notwithstanding what has been said, in Venezuela we have reasons to be optimistic. That is because we have learned to trust the people — its intelligence, its benevolence and its attachment to justice and true life. But it is necessary to recognize that the dominant world order faces multiple crises competing in their lethal potential, converging and articulating with one another. The climate crisis aggravates the food crisis, the health crisis deepens the social crisis, the energy crisis intensifies the economic crisis, and the latter endangers world peace.
“Transversally to all this, the no less pernicious crisis of truth is upon us, now exacerbated by information contamination and fake news. We are facing a regime of representation, misrepresentation and suppression of reality imposed by the algorithm of new communication technologies at the convenience of the most powerful. The manipulation of information and emotions is only part of the problem.
“We are witnessing a global state of surveillance and digital control that violates citizens’ rights to privacy and truthful information, turning our democracies into infocracies, as the South Korean philosopher Byung Chul-Han states in his most recent book. The death of truth is the clearest symptom of the decline of a civilization and the preamble to perpetual conflict. Let us not allow the truth to succumb at the historical moment when we have the best chance of applying it, together with reason and sensitivity, as an antidote to collapse.
“The peoples of America, Europe, Asia, Africa and Oceania know that, due to its transcendent and definitive nature, we must face this multidimensional crisis with humanity by going to the heart of the problem. Where is the telluric fault that is shaking the building of the prevailing order? It lies in the crisis of the Western supremacist, imperialist model of civilization, which denies, attacks and tries to suppress the other and the differences among us, and that does not recognize other models or other political, economic, religious or cultural paradigms foreign to its own.
“Despite Western arrogance, we are experiencing a post-imperial change of era, and the global North must recognize that the reigning unipolar and colonialist order is not capable of responding satisfactorily to the problems and needs that it has created to the detriment of humankind, animal life and the planet. The latter is, from our ordinary worldview, the living being most exploited, violated and destroyed by capitalism in all its historical phases.
“We are not just engaging in ideological reflection, nothing more. The climate crisis, which is already irreversible, could be the confirmation that a change of model is imminent.
“The North must accept the indisputable emergence of new Powers and new leadership, such as China, Russia, India, Iran and Tiirkiye. It has to be open to the possibility of being part of a multipolar, pluricentric world that is free of hegemony. It is urgent that there be an ethical change among the old Powers to build a common new world without colonizers or colonized, in which we work together towards the solutions that our peoples demand of us. There is no time for arrogance or useless confrontations or skirmishes.
“In very unique circumstances 207 years ago, the freedom fighter Simon Bolivar, in his prophetic Jamaica Letter, invoked the wisdom of the West.
“‘And shall Europe, the civilized, the merchant, the lover of liberty allow an aged serpent, bent only on satisfying its venomous rage, devour the fairest part of our globe? ... Is Europe deaf to the clamour of her own interests?’ (Selected Writings of Bolivar, Volume 1 ,p. 107)
“In that regard, I wonder whether European and North American leadership is deaf. We ask ourselves that today, as we are on the brink of a crisis that could be the last crisis for humankind.
“Venezuela hopes that the Assembly will listen to reason, wisdom and prudence, recognize and respect the rights of the peoples of the world and address the injustice committed against the Saharawi and the Palestinian people by denying them the right to a homeland. We hope for an end to the illegal economic sanctions and political persecution against Nicaragua and against our brotherly Cuba, Iran and Russia. We hope that the Argentine people will be compensated and that their rights over the Malvinas Islands, taken with blood and fire by the imperial logic that we have denounced, will be restored.
“Only through dialogue, only through words and reason shared among equals, can we build the bridges we need to heal the wounds and leave behind the abyss that instils fear in humankind.
“It is with that belief, and not to comply with the protocol of the general debate, that I send this message. My focus is on the streets, where the ordinary men and women of Abyei, New York, Istanbul, London, Damascus, Ramallah, Tehran, Cape Town, Moscow, Beijing, Managua, Havana, Caracas and many more places are not looking for answers but rather for a call to be part of the building of a new humanity. Because I believe in the power of words and in those men and women who refuse to give up hope, I am sure that this call will not fall on deaf ears.
“Let us have the good sense to recognize that the hegemonic global model is coming to an end, and let us arm ourselves with the necessary enthusiasm to build a new multicentric, multipolar, intercultural and balanced world.
“Let us change what needs to be changed and let us have the courage to be reborn in the face of new times and new challenges. Another world, another life, is not only possible — it is today more urgent than ever.”
That statement was written by Nicolas Maduro Moros in Caracas on 24 September.

===== Session 78 - 2023 =====
From the homeland of the liberator Simon Bolivar and Commander Hugo Chavez Frias, we convey warm greetings on behalf of the constitutional President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Nicolas Maduro Moros, and the entire Venezuelan people. Allow us to congratulate the President of the General Assembly on his election. We wish to express 
our solidarity with the sister nations of Libya and Morocco over the recent and painful loss of lives due to natural disasters.
It is 78 years since the historic moment when humankind, having defeated fascism and Nazism, envisioned the creation of a space where dialogue among all States would prevail, on the basis of which we could build global stability and cooperation on the pillars of peace and security, human rights and sustainable development.
Eighteen years ago. at this very rostrum, our Commander Hugo Chavez Frias said:
“the United Nations has outgrown its model. It is not just a question of simple reform. The twenty- first century requires profound changes that will be possible only if the Organization is truly recast.” (A/60/PV.6, p. 17)
As painful as it is to acknowledge, that statement remains relevant. The United Nations has not been able to fulfil its founding purpose, and we now face much more serious challenges.
The United Nations has not managed to overcome the unilateralism of countries that, by replicating a colonial and imperial rationale, seek to assert themselves over and above the principles enshrined in this Organization’s founding Charter. The solution to the new and complex challenges facing humankind today cannot be achieved without consolidating inclusive multilateralism, the democratization of international relations and a genuine multipolar system.
Today we see how many agencies, funds and programmes of the United Nations system fail to fulfil their mandates and end up being exploited by the interests of the United States of America and its allies. We must reform the Organization to make it a democratic institution in which all Members have a voice and participate in decision-making on equal terms.
It is crucial to return to the practice of consensus, including within this General Assembly, which requires ending the zero-sum mentality and. instead, promoting a win-win vision that allows us to effectively address collective interests through cooperation, tolerance and understanding. It is equally necessary to move forward with the reform of the Security Council to correct historical imbalances and provide greater representation to our mother Africa in that important organ.
The United Nations cannot continue to operate as it is. How many resolutions must this General Assembly adopt to put an end once and for all to the criminal blockade against our sister Cuba? How many more resolutions must this General Assembly or the Security Council itself, the decisions of which are legally binding, adopt for the rights of Palestine to be truly respected as a free and independent State?
We wonder how many more summits it will take for us to realize that the commitments we have made, particularly in the area of development, have not been fulfilled? How much more time must pass for us to realize that, under the current system, it is impossible to achieve the goals that we have set for ourselves? Since the year 2000. when we agreed on the now defunct Millennium Development Goals, no less than 30 summits have been convened by the United Nations.
It is crucial to move forward without further delay regarding the reform of the international financial architecture, including the governance and decision-making methods of the Bretton Woods institutions, which serve the interests of a minority of wealthy countries, which also politicize them to exert pressure and domination over sovereign nations. The restructuring of the United Nations involves settling the historical debt of decolonization. Our peoples were victims of the crimes of colonization and slavery. A just future is possible only if reparations are made for the recognition, justice and development of historically affected populations.
We also reiterate our strong support for Argentina. Mauritius and the Comoros in their sovereignty disputes over the Falkland Islands, the Chagos archipelago and Mayotte island, respectively, as well as for the heroic brotherly peoples of Palestine. Puerto Rico and Western Sahara, with whom we firmly stand in their just claim for their inalienable right to self-determination and the realization of their legitimate national aspirations.
In the past few hours, very worrisome events have taken place. The Government of the United States of America, believing itself to be sovereign over our continent under the pretext of the illegal Monroe Doctrine, has once again intervened in a territorial dispute over our territory of Guay ana Esequiba. which has lasted for more than 200 years. The origin of that dispute lies in the dispossession of our territory by the British Empire during the height of its violence in the nineteenth century. The imperialist aggression was 
imposed on us by the Powers of the time in 1899 under false pretences.
Today the Government of the United States of America seeks to appropriate our oil resources through the ExxonMobil company, which has incorporated the Government of Guyana into its ranks. Guyana is granting oil concessions in undelimited maritime territory, in complete violation of international law. It is not possible to utilize a disputed territory unilaterally, but the Co-operative Republic of Guyana persists in its illegal conduct. We condemn the fact that the Government of the United States of America intends to militarize the situation. The Southern Command seeks to establish a military base in the contested territory, with the aim of creating a launching pad for its aggression against Venezuela and entrenching the plunder of our energy resources.
Two days ago. the National Assembly of Venezuela unanimously decided to call on our people to participate in a consultative referendum to reaffirm the defence of our sovereign territory in the face of the aggression of the American empire, which seeks to lead us into a war over natural resources. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela reaffirms its commitment to peace, but also its resolute determination to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity.
The protection of cyberspace, the fight against cybercrime, the regulation of new information technologies, social media and artificial intelligence must become a strategic priority for the United Nations. If we truly advocate for the defence of human rights and democratic principles, we must promote fair and equitable regulation that does not allow the focus of those new tools to be for the interests and control of a few. Neither can we accept the use of those new technologies to destabilize legitimate Governments and destroy social harmony and peace.
In that regard, our country has serious and legitimate concerns given the destabilization, espionage, sabotage and cyberattacks that have been carried out in recent years against the banking sector, the electrical supply, the oil industry and national health-care systems.
In order to reclaim the founding spirit of the United Nations, hate speech and practices must be mitigated, and the attempts by some sectors to promote racist, discriminatory and xenophobic trends must be unequivocally rejected. Those trends seek to revive and even glorify ideologies that we thought were overcome, such as fascism. Nazism. neo-Nazism. white supremacism and nationalist radicalism.
While such phenomena have their main manifestations in Europe and the United States of America, our own region of Latin America and the Caribbean has not been exempt from such events. Fifty years ago. a just man. who dared to speak great truths from this very rostrum and called on us to work for a fairer international economic order, the martyr President Salvador Allende, was assassinated by fascists acting on behalf of transnational capital interests.
In more recent times, political extremism and the culture of hatred driven by similar interests instigated the attack on our Head of State and Government in 2018. as well as the assassination attempt on our colleague Mrs. Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner. Vice-President of the Argentine Republic. Added to that is the attempt to disregard the democratic will of the Brazilian people at the beginning of this year and the recent developments in the sister Republic of Ecuador.
Using double standards, those who claim to defend freedoms become persecutors. Those who claim to defend democracy activate mechanisms of political persecution to reverse democratic processes or to restrict the freedom of expression, as in the case of Julian Assange, who remains a political target of those who cannot forgive him for revealing the true nature of imperialist interventionism.
We also condemn the persecution of diplomats, in clear violation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, as in the case of our diplomat Alex Saab, who was illegally kidnapped by the Government of the United States of America. We demand his immediate release. That kind of persecution jeopardizes the security and integrity of all diplomatic envoys worldwide, regardless of their nationality. From the United Nations, we call on all countries to condemn that nefarious practice.
The current crisis of global leadership, including within this very Organization, coupled with the polarization prevailing in our world, exacerbates the current global crisis and threatens to entrench a Cold War mentality in international relations, based on confrontation, deepening divisions and the imposition of competing visions and agendas.
An example of that is the irresponsible provocations by the most powerful military force in the world, which, by dividing the world into power blocs, exacerbates 
conflicts, pushing humankind into an arms race, which can lead only to the destruction of life on our planet. Let us count how much has been invested in armaments and how much in promoting spaces for diplomacy and dialogue, and we will sadly realize how many opportunities to save lives we have lost.
We express our concern at the rapid increase in military spending in recent months, reaching levels unseen in the past generations. That is about a new and alarming arms race that diverts resources that would be of greater benefit to humankind if they were used not only in financing development agendas or fighting poverty, but also in addressing the food crisis and the climate crisis that currently threatens our world.
We support the proposal of Colombian President Gustavo Petro Urrego to convene a world conference for peace in Ukraine and in Palestine. We call for addressing those issues in a balanced and cautious manner, reducing tensions and promoting confidence-building measures, not only in Eastern Europe, but also on the Korean peninsula and in Western Asia. We are confident that that will create a conducive environment for the success of diplomatic efforts for peace.
Venezuela is committed to the Declaration of Latin America and the Caribbean as a Zone of Peace. We actively participate in the reconciliation process in the Republic of Colombia, convinced that the achievement of complete peace for our sisters and brothers will lead to strengthening regional peace.
The world still faces a major pandemic — the pernicious effects of an aggressive policy, manifested in the illegal imposition of unilateral coercive measures against a third of humankind. The so-called sanctions, in violation of all norms of international law and the purposes and principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, represent mass violations of human rights for millions of people. Such measures are applied precisely by those who then claim to present themselves as champions of human rights.
They are also a deliberate attack on the right to development of entire peoples and an impediment to the achievement of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which we have discussed to such an extent throughout this week. Those illegal measures have created a crisis in the system of international relations, and we therefore demand their complete, immediate and unconditional lifting.
It is unacceptable to our peoples, who daily resist the effects of a criminal blockade policy, for the General Assembly to seek to disregard such a disgrace in its policy documents. We therefore cannot endorse any declaration that ignores or omits that pivotal issue for the lives and existence of hundreds of millions of human beings. How much our countries could improve the quality of life for our peoples, eradicate hunger or cure diseases if we were allowed to fully develop our capacities, based on our potential.
The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has been a victim of a cruel policy of aggression and siege. More than 930 unilateral coercive measures have been imposed on our country by the Government of the United States of America and its accomplices. Those illegal measures have caused great pain and suffering for our people, with economic losses amounting to more than $232 billion, a steep drop in our gross domestic product and the confiscation of billions of dollars in sovereign resources held in the international financial system, including 31 tons of gold seized by the British Government in the Bank of England.
Not even the coronavirus disease pandemic was reason enough to lift those illegal measures. Today we face a new wave of crueller and more destructive unilateral coercive measures, which affect access to vaccines, food and other basic goods and services, turning such atrocities into true crimes against humanity.
The United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has recommended the suspension and lifting of all unilateral coercive measures harmful to human rights. Venezuela demands a complete, immediate and unconditional end to all illegal policies of sanctions and economic, commercial and financial blockades imposed on Venezuela. Cuba. Eritrea. Iran. Nicaragua. Syria. Zimbabwe and other sister nations, which have successfully weathered those imperial policies through determination and commitment.
In that context, we thank all the peoples of the world and the many sister nations that have called for the lifting of sanctions from platforms such as the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America-Peoples’ Trade Agreement, the Caribbean Community and the Southern African Development Community, as well as every country in this very Hall that has demanded that the sanctions be removed. That demonstrates that Venezuela has never been alone. 
Without the obstacle of unilateral coercive measures. Venezuela is prepared to be part of the solution to the crisis, particularly in the areas of food security and energy. We propose the establishment of a zone free of unilateral coercive measures, in which we can conduct our financial transactions and interbank payments, enabling us to ensure direct investments and legal trade among our nations without risk or arbitrary or punitive impediments from Western Powers. Nevertheless, despite the difficulties and aggression, our Government’s commitment to eradicating poverty, achieving social justice and fully enjoying our human rights, as well as to the sister peoples of our Latin America and the world, is unwavering.
Despite the attacks, aggression, siege and looting resulting from unilateral coercive measures, the Venezuelan economy has begun a process of recovery, with projected growth figures far surpassing those of other countries of our region, as highlighted by the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean and other specialized organizations. Such results, achieved through our own efforts, have made us a regional benchmark for economic growth, while never neglecting the essential — protecting our people through social investment.
We are facing an existential climate catastrophe for millions of people, especially our brothers and sisters from small island developing States, in both the Caribbean and the Pacific. The effects of years of climate injustice, marked by unsustainable patterns of consumption and production, have accelerated in recent years. Libya has been one of the most recent victims of the impacts of climate change, also affecting our country, which has experienced floods and record temperatures in recent months.
In renewing our firm commitment to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, we stress the need to ensure adequate funding for the loss and damage fund, always bearing in mind the principles of common but differentiated responsibilities and equity. We know that the resources exist, where they are and who has them. As Commander Chavez Frias said 14 years ago. let us not change the climate; let us change the system.
Given the economic and financial crisis that particularly affects developing countries, we need a new model for the mechanisms of global governance, where the global South has fair access to international financing. Until there is a genuine and effective reform of the multilateral system in the financial sphere, the Sustainable Development Goals, the focus of this session, are doomed not to be met.
Debt is a crucial issue for developing countries, and there is little hope that things will improve soon if the current system is not radically changed. The World Bank, the International Monetary Fund and Western credit institutions in general, while charging their friends low interest rates, burden developing countries with unpayable interest rates, which some experts have termed criminal financial apartheid. That neocolonialist system of plunder and financial dependence must be rooted out.
Among the major challenges facing humankind today, in the context of that global systemic crisis, in which this Organization has a fundamental role to play, is the phenomenon of international migration. We cannot allow migrants to be stigmatized and criminalized. President Nicolas Maduro Moros requests the support of the United Nations to hold an international conference in Venezuela, without any exclusion, to reach joint agreements and commitments to address the phenomenon of migratory flows from a comprehensive and humanistic perspective — a genuine international commitment to ensuring the rights of migrants to citizenship, identity, dignified work, social security and respect for their dignity.
We. the free peoples, are building a new world order. That new multipolar and multi-centric world of peace and economic prosperity, free from hegemony, anchored in the United Nations Charter, must be based on the values of genuine multilateralism, international cooperation and solidarity. In that regard, we acknowledge the contribution of the Brazil. Russia. India. China and South Africa (BRICS) bloc, which Venezuela aspires to join, to the current global geopolitics and the democratization of international relations. We also applaud the efforts of countries that contribute to dialogue, understanding, global peace and common progress, such as the People’s Republic of China. Venezuela supports its Global Development Initiative, its Global Security Initiative and its Global Civilization Initiative. It is through common efforts, in a spirit of complementarity, solidarity and cooperation, that we can change the course towards a common destiny of prosperity and stability for all humankind. 
It is up to us to save the system of international relations from the threats that currently loom over it. It is up to us to preserve the principles of the United Nations Charter, on which international law is based. It is up to us to make our people’s aspirations for peace and security, sustainable development and human rights a reality.
Cognizant of that historic task. Venezuela, together with a group of countries from various regions of the world, undertook the task of building a platform from which all responsible members of the international community can be mobilized to preserve, promote and strengthen the founding treaty of our Organization. Thus, two years ago. the Group of Friends in Defence of the Charter of the United Nations was born, which has now positioned itself as a key actor in various intergovernmental processes taking place in this multilateral forum.
As our President. Nicolas Maduro Moros, said a few weeks ago at the BRICS Plus summit:
“Definitely, unity is what makes strength, and that united strength promotes a new global relationship paradigm and promotes a new twenty-first-century global geopolitics”.
Let us work together so that the United Nations also becomes an organization that meets the needs of peoples for this century.
In recent years, much has been said about Venezuela. Much disinformation has been spread through major media corporations and social networks about the reality of what is happening in our country. Many attempts have been made to disseminate a media campaign through so-called fake news, with the aim of deploying a humanitarian intervention in our country, in flagrant violation of our sovereignty. However, thanks to Bolivarian peace diplomacy, under the leadership of President Nicolas Maduro Moros, the truth about Venezuela has always prevailed and has always resonated strongly within the United Nations.
Today the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is in complete peace and tranquillity. Dialogue has been an ongoing policy of the Bolivarian revolution and has prevailed as the only option on the table, without foreign interference or tutelage of any kind, and within the framework of our national Constitution, to settle differences that exist in our nation and that are characteristic of the robust Venezuelan democratic system. We have been, are and always will always a country open to. and ready for. respectful debate among equals.
Those who tried to subjugate our people through economic terrorism, hunger, disease, foreign invasion, the thwarted assassination of our Head of State and Government and the imposition of fictitious entities to promote a regime change agenda and facilitate the theft of national assets have failed miserably. Dozens of countries took a senseless and foolish position, which, unfortunately, rendered them ridiculous in the eyes of history. Today the vast majority of those countries, with few exceptions, have overcome the awkward episode and have returned to the path of diplomacy and understanding among equals.
In Venezuela, we continue to stand tall, fighting alongside our people, in perfect harmony with all sectors of the country and heading towards a new electoral process, which, despite the campaigns that have already been launched to discredit it or question it. we are sure will result in new victories of the people, based on the sovereign will of the Venezuelan people. Once again, in 2024. we will go to the polling stations in a civic and collective manner to reiterate support for the Bolivarian revolutionary socialist movement initiated by the eternal Commander Hugo Chavez Frias.
Allow me to conclude by reiterating that Venezuela remains determined to be the master of its destiny and to exercise its sovereignty, resolved to continue to consolidate its independence and its right to live in peace. Our nation and our people will never yield to pressure, blackmail or threats and will remain free. Today we find ourselves in high spirits and with a heightened awareness and unity to continue to move forward in building a homeland of social justice, solidarity and inclusion, inspired by our liberators and the enduring will of a people who does not surrender and will never surrender, determined to continue to triumph in revolution.


===== Session 79 - 2024 =====
Distinguished Heads of Delegation, 
Ministers, Ambassadors, Mr. President, 
 
1.  Over the past few days, we have heard two narratives in this General Assembly: one, the discourse of the oligarchs and their satellites, who seek to rule the world, and, the other, that of the dignified peoples, who fight for their sovereignty and independence. 
 
2.  The oligarchs, led by the government of the United States of America, are attacking the Charter of the United Nations to destroy this Organization, from both outside and within, and have nearly achieved this already. To this end, they promote the involvement of private corporations, non-governmental organizations, and other strategies that disregard the sovereignty of States. They have called this a “rules-based order”. 
 
3.  Not satisfied with this, the oligarchies resort to political expressions that we thought we had already overcome, such as fascism and Nazism. These political currents of imposition and domination promote white supremacism, racism, xenophobia and other manifestations, normalized with the support of large international media monopolies and social networks, which are at the service of imperialism and neo-colonialism, ultimately supporting their plans to create tensions, fabricate conflicts and confront the peoples. 
 
4.  As we speak in this Assembly, bombs are being dropped on Gaza, where Israel has murdered tens of thousands of innocent girls, boys, women and men, with the complicity of the governments of the United States of America and the European Union. The greatest crime of extermination and genocide since the one committed by Hitler in the Second World War is currently being perpetrated. Today, they intend to export their hatred and destruction to an entire region, bombing and murdering innocent people in Lebanon and Syria, as they try to destabilize the Islamic Republic of Iran. This is a real threat to both humanity and world peace. 
 
5.  A new form of terrorism has been applied to Lebanon, with the complicity of private companies that manage the supply chains of mass consumer technologies. It sets a severe precedent, putting global security at risk. They also bomb civilian infrastructure in that brotherly country, killing innocent people, just as they do in Gaza. Israel has truly become a death machine that must be stopped immediately.  
 
6.  Instead of stopping the massacre and bringing those responsible to justice, those most powerful insist on expanding the war to Europe and other parts of the world, through military blocs such as NATO. After the defeat of Ukraine in their Nazi adventure, they now intend to bring war and terrorism to Great Russia, which, as history has taught us, will always be victorious.  
 
7.  NATO's expansion also threatens peace in South America with the installation of military bases, with the complicity of the lackey governments of Argentina and Ecuador. 
 
8.  Hate speeches stimulate and promote terrorism in its various manifestations. For instance, from the very territory of the United States of America, attacks, assassination attempts, destabilization and aggression against sovereign peoples, such as Venezuela, are continuously planned. To this end, they have resorted to the use of information and communication technologies, especially social networks, controlled by the empire's front men, who fabricate psychological wars aimed at exploiting feelings of hatred and destruction, without control of any sort. 
 
9.  In addition to this, there are cyberattacks on critical infrastructure, including vital utilities, banking, oil, and electoral systems, as happened in my country on 28 July. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
10. How can progress be achieved on peace and security issues when the United States of America, whose government insists on providing a framework of impunity for violators of international law, hijacks the body responsible for maintaining peace and security? 
 
11. From this rostrum, we reiterate our unwavering solidarity with the brotherly Palestinian people, whom we support with determination in their just cause and in all efforts aimed at preserving a clear political horizon, which preserves the viability of the two-State solution, based on the pre-1967 borders. We welcome the fact that, for the first time in the history of this Assembly, the delegation of Palestine sits with us as another State. Today, more than ever, it is urgent that we ensure their immediate full membership in this Organization.  
 
12. We also ask, how can the decolonization agenda be concluded if we insist on preserving a status quo that only benefits the Occupying and Administering Powers? 
 
13. Our solidarity and strong support go out to all peoples who are fighting for their inalienable right to self-determination, to achieve full independence and to be true masters of their destiny, their lands and their resources. It is time that the yearnings for freedom of our sisters and brothers in Western Sahara, Puerto Rico, New Caledonia, French Polynesia, Bonaire and so many other territories be finally realized.  
 
14. Venezuela has a profound anti-colonial vocation, inherited from our independence struggle and the legacy of our Liberator Simon Bolívar. Therefore, we embrace with determination all these great causes, which we have historically assumed to be our own. We are determined to contribute to the end of colonialism in all its forms and manifestations. 
 
15. Similarly, we will continue to demand the restitution of sovereignty rights over the Chagos Archipelago and the Malvinas Islands to their legitimate owners, the Republic of Mauritius and the Argentine Republic. Despite the betrayal of the ineffable Javier Milei to the Malvinas cause, the brotherly people of Argentina can always count on Venezuela’s solidarity and full support in this just and historical claim.  
 
Mr. President, 
 
16. Even today, the peoples of the world are still paying the price for the misfortunes left by the colonialism of empires such as the United Kingdom, which committed crimes on all continents and is now trying to erase from our memories with total impunity. 
 
17. One of them, the harmful effect of which persists still to date, is the dispossession of Venezuela’s sovereign rights over our Guayana Esequiba. This plunder, originated in the expansionist and violent policy exercised by the British Empire in Venezuelan territory throughout the 19th century, which sought to impose itself by fraudulent means in 1899, through an arbitration that was rigged betwen the powers of the time. 
 
18. On 03 December 2023, the Venezuelan people expressed themselves clearly and decisively in a consultative referendum, granting an unavoidable mandate to the Venezuelan State to recover the Guayana Esequiba, a territory that represents a sacred inheritance of the struggle of our Liberators. 
 
19. In that referendum, the Venezuelan people ratified the historic position of our country of never recognizing the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) in this case, nor any decision it may adopt on this matter. 
 
20. The President of Guyana has lied in this tribune on this aspect. Venezuela only recognizes the Geneva Agreement of 1966 as the only way to reach a settlement that restores Venezuela's rights over the territory of the Guayana Esequiba. 
 
21. Today, the United States of America and Guyana are in violation of the Joint Declaration of Argyle, threatening regional peace, security and stability, through the military presence of extra-regional actors and the illegitimate granting of oil concessions in an un-demarcated maritime area. 
 
22. In this context, we take this opportunity to reiterate our firm commitment to the CELAC Proclamation of Latin America and the Caribbean as a Zone of Peace. It is time for Guyana to demonstrate its commitment to that Proclamation, to dialogue, mutual respect, tolerance and understanding, thus returning to the Geneva Agreement of 1966. 
 
23. The illegal imposition of unilateral coercive measures against entire peoples by the United States of America and the European Union represents a flagrant violation of the Charter of the United Nations and every norm of international law. These measures constitute massive violations of human rights, including the right to development, as well as crimes against humanity.  
 
24. We reiterate our call for the complete, immediate and unconditional lifting of all the regimes of so-called sanctions and blockades that today are enforced against more than a third of humanity, including thirty (30) million Venezuelans. Our solidarity with our sisters and brothers in Belarus, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, Cuba, Eritrea, Iran, Nicaragua, Syria, Zimbabwe, and so many others who suffer the effects of these criminal policies on a daily basis. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
25. Dignified peoples fighting for their sovereignty and independence have also raised their voices in these spaces and must be heard.   
 
26. Venezuela today faces the onslaught of new forms of colonialism. For several years now, the government in Washington has been carrying out a neo-colonial experiment that aims to destroy our democratic system, our institutions, our sovereignty, our independence and the inalienable right of our people to selfdetermination in every possible way.  
 
27. This is a large-scale recolonization plan that attempts, based on a continued coup d'état, to destroy our Republic. For its execution, all options have been and continue to be on the table. 
 
28. Since the cruel and inhuman enforcement of a ferocious economic, commercial and financial blockade, with almost a thousand sanctions, which have cost our nation more than 642 billion dollars in the last seven years alone; to which we must add the losses of our State oil company, PDVSA, amounting to 232 billion dollars; and the theft of 31 tons of gold deposited in the Bank of England, as well as of other important assets owned by the Republic abroad; not to mention the theft by Argentina and the Dominican Republic of aircrafts in the service of the Venezuelan State. 
 
29. Venezuela is not the only one affected by this interventionism, deeply rooted in the colonialist tradition of the Monroe Doctrine, which continues to stalk any expression of political independence in our continent, as in the case of brave Cuba and blessed and always free Nicaragua. They also promote coups d'état, as in Bolivia in 2019 and 2024, and they mercilessly attack, with the support of local oligarchies, the government of President Gustavo Petro, in Colombia, and that of President Xiomara Castro of Honduras. Our firm support and unwavering solidarity with them as well.  
 
Mr. President, 
 
30. On 28 July, as is customary in our revolutionary democracy, the Venezuelan people expressed themselves in a conscious, peaceful and massive manner to elect, with full guarantees, transparency and freedom, the Venezuelan Head of State and Government for the 2025-2031 term. President Nicolás Maduro was reelected with a clear and overwhelming support. 
 
31. After this great popular victory, the oligarchy of my country resorted, once again, to the disregard of laws and institutions, triggering a criminal violence that left 27 dead, hundreds wounded, and the destruction of public and private property. With the use of criminal gangs, they set up barricades, burned schools, hospitals and public institutions, and assassinated ordinary citizens for their political affiliations. 
 
32. None of this will be reported in the mainstream media. Worse still, neither does the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, who, despite having received all the information about these criminal acts and the responsible actions deployed by the Venezuelan State, has preferred to turn the victims into perpetrators and the perpetrators into victims. 
 
33. Over the last two days, this fascist and disinformation campaign against our country has been fed from this rostrum. The government of the United States of America and its satellite and servile governments have dedicated themselves to lying, attacking and threatening our people from this place, which is a symbol of peace and understanding, trying to impose a false narrative. 
 
34. But here we come, once again, to present the truth about Venezuela and our people; today, we come to unmask all these phonies. 
 
 
35. At the forefront of this gigantic operation is, as usual, the government of the United States of America and its agencies, as part of its failed policy of continued coup d'état against the Bolivarian Revolution of Venezuela, which began more than 25 years ago. 
 
36. From their territory, specifically from the State of Florida, terrorist attacks against public officials and public facilities are planned. They also use social networks with impunity and full support from the White House to promote mercenary incursions, as already happened in May 2020.  
 
37. Although Washington denies involvement, this time, they were caught redhanded. Investigations into the latest aggression plots have shown that several U.S. and European mercenaries, including an active U.S. military officer specializing in terrorist and destabilization operations, were behind the post-electoral violence. 
 
38. These criminals have confessed that they intended to assassinate President 
Nicolás Maduro, the Executive Vice-President and several other senior Venezuelan State officials, as well as attacking critical infrastructure services, such as water and electricity. We inform you that all have been arrested, including two people linked to Spain's National Intelligence Centre (CNI, in Spanish). More than 400 rifles of different types have also been seized, some of them produced for the exclusive use of the U.S. Armed Forces. 
 
39. In the coming weeks our government will present additional and much stronger evidence of what happened, which we are certain will shock the world. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
40. An additional phase of this criminal plan of aggression has been developed in recent days through another group of mercenaries who opened a website in this country to raise funds to attack Venezuela and carry out assassinations openly. This initiative has the public backing of U.S. government agencies, U.S. Congress members, and senators. The hypocritical oligarchic narrative does not condemn such an aberration.  
 
41. In this context, it is worth to underline the obligation of States to ensure that their territory is not used to finance, plan, facilitate or commit acts of destabilization, through the use of mercenaries and terrorists, and, in this sense, we demand that the U.S. government comply with its international obligations on this subject. 
 
42. We also have to emphasize that these terrorist plots, planned for months, took place at the very same time as the negotiations and the signing of agreements between Venezuela and the United States of America in Doha, in September last year, through which we sought to move towards a normalization phase of relations between the two nations. This is further proof that the empire's word and supposed goodwill cannot be trusted.  
 
43. The Venezuelan people demand the immediate fulfilment of the commitments agreed in Doha to lift all unilateral coercive measures that illegally weigh on our country today, and we thank the government of the State of Qatar for its good offices as facilitator of these negotiations. 
 
44. Furthermore, and we have to say so, all this is also happening while the government of the United States of America, which promotes and finances criminal actions around the world, includes Cuba, without any basis whatsoever, in a spurious list of countries allegedly accused of sponsoring terrorism. We also demand an end to this attack against the homeland of Martí and Fidel, which further deepens the impact of the blockade. 
 
Mr. President, 
 
45. This new aggression against Venezuela, that is still in full swing, will have exactly the same destiny as all the previous ones: a resounding failure.  
 
46. Despite the psychological operations aimed at creating confusion, despite 
Washington's overt and covert operations within the framework of a so-called “maximum pressure” policy, social peace reigns in Venezuela today. The plans to generate violence have been defeated, thanks to the determination of our people to defend their right to live in peace. 
 
47. Moreover, Venezuela has experienced growth today that has allowed it to insert itself strongly into the world economic dynamic, contributing its strengths to the production of energy, food, and basic goods and services. This epic has been possible thanks to the determination of the Venezuelan people and the firm leadership that has managed to confront the blockade. 
 
 
48. Amid this juncture, our call to the free and peace-loving peoples of the world is to strengthen unity in the face of those who want to divide us, in order to achieve their plans of neocolonial domination. It is time for the Global South; it is time for that longed-for New World Order; it is time to consolidate this new pluripolar and multicentric world of peace and economic prosperity, free of hegemonies; it is time to rescue the founding principles contained in the UN Charter, and to honor the promise that this Organization is at the service of “We the peoples”, as stated in its preamble. 
 
49. Venezuela puts its Bolivarian Diplomacy of Peace at the service of humanity to advance in that direction, as demonstrated by its leadership at the head of the “Group of Friends in Defense of the Charter of the United Nations”. 
 
50. These are the principles that constitute the narrative of free peoples, which are expressed in new forms of partnership based on the principles of solidarity and complementarity, such as the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of Our America (ALBA-TCP), the BRICS and other hopeful horizons of the emerging new world order, in which our country continues to insert itself at an accelerated pace.  
 
Mr. President, 
 
51. Let me conclude by emphasizing that, in Venezuela, we are still on our feet, waging battles, hand in hand with our people, in permanent popular organization and mobilization, and in the struggle to continue consolidating our independence. 
 
52. No matter who is the head of the U.S. imperialism that speaks before this rostrum in a year’ time, rest assured that the clear and rebellious voice of the people of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela will continue to be present in this forum under the firm leadership of President Nicolás Maduro Moros, as we stand determined to resist U.S. imperialism. 
 
53. With Bolívar we say: “God grants victory to constancy”! 
 
 
I thank you, Mr. President. 
